add 6.0 release notes (#7987)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-6.0.0-dmr.md

| TiDB | `stmt-summary.enable` | Deleted | Configuration related to the [statement summary tables](/statement-summary-tables.md). All these configuration items are removed. You need to use SQL variables to control the statement summary tables. |
| TiDB | `stmt-summary.enable-internal-query` | Deleted |  |
| TiDB | `stmt-summary.history-size` | Deleted |  |
| TiDB | `stmt-summary.max-sql-length` | Deleted |  |
| TiDB | `stmt-summary.max-stmt-count` | Deleted |  |
| TiDB | `stmt-summary.refresh-interval` | Deleted |  |
| TiKV | `pessimistic-txn.in-memory` | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the in-memory pessimistic lock. With this feature enabled, pessimistic transactions store pessimistic locks in TiKV memory as much as possible, instead of writing pessimistic locks to disks or replicating to other replicas. This improves the performance of pessimistic transactions; however, there is a low probability that a pessimistic lock will be lost, which might cause the pessimistic transaction to fail to commit. The default value is `true`. |

> | TiKV | `quota` | Newly added | This configuration item is related to the frontend quota limiter. It limits the resources occupied by frontend requests. This is an experimental feature and is disabled by default. New configuration items are `foreground-cpu-time`, `foreground-write-bandwidth`, `foreground-read-bandwidth`, and `max-delay-duration`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiKV | `quota` | Newly added | Add configuration items related to Quota Limiter, which limit the resources occupied by frontend requests. Quota Limiter is an experimental feature and is disabled by default. New configuration items are `foreground-cpu-time`, `foreground-write-bandwidth`, `foreground-read-bandwidth`, and `max-delay-duration`. |
```

| TiKV | `rocksdb.enable-pipelined-write` | Modified | Change the default value from `true` to `false`. When this configuration is enabled, the previous Pipelined Write is used. When this configuration is disabled, the new Pipelined Commit mechanism is used. |
| TiKV | `rocksdb.max-background-flushes` | Modified | - When the number of CPU cores is 10, the default value is `3`.<br/>- When the number of CPU cores is 8, the default value is `2`. |
| TiKV | `rocksdb.max-background-jobs` | Modified | + When the number of CPU cores is 10, the default value is `9`.<br/>+ When the number of CPU cores is 8, the default value is `7`. |

> | TiKV | `enable-io-snoop` | Deleted | Removes the `enable-io-snoop` configuration item. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| TiKV | [`raft-engine.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-engine) | Modified | The default value is changed from `false` to `true`, which uses Raft Engine to store raft logs. When it is enabled, configurations of `raftdb` are ignored. |
| TiKV | `raftstore.apply-max-batch-size` | Modified | Chang the maximum value to `10240`. |
| TiKV | `backup.num-threads` | Modified | Modify the adjustable range to `[1, CPU]`.  |
| TiKV | `readpool.unified.max-thread-count` | Modified | Modify the adjustable range to `[min-thread-count, MAX(4, CPU)]`. |
| TiKV | `raft-max-size-per-msg` | Modified | - Change the minimum value from `0` to larger than `0`.<br/>- Add a maximum value of `3 GB`.<br/>- Change the unit from `MB` to `KB\|MB\|GB`. |

> | TiKV | `store-max-batch-size` | Modified | Add a maximum value of `10240`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiKV | `store-max-batch-size` | Modified | Add a maximum value of `10240`. |
| TiKV | `enable-io-snoop` | Deleted | Remove the `enable-io-snoop` configuration item. |
```

    Top SQL is disabled by default and can be enabled with a single click. When enabled, Top SQL provides you with the CPU load of each TiKV or TiFlash node within the last 30 days, so you can intuitively see which SQL statements cause high CPU loads and quickly analyze the issues such as database hotspots and sudden load increases.

    For example, you can use Top SQL to locate an analytic query that consumes 99% of the load for a low-load database.

    [User documentation](/dashboard/top-sql.md)

* General availability (GA) of Continuous Profiling

>     Continuous Profiling is GA in TiDB v6.0. This feature is not enabled by default. You can enable it in TiDB Dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    TiDB Dashboard introduces the Continuous Profiling feature, providing the ability to automatically save instance performance analysis results as the cluster is running, improving the observability of TiDB cluster performance and helping to reduce troubleshooting time.
    
    With Continuous Profiling, you can collect continuous performance data of TiDB, TiKV, and PD instances, and view the profiling results in flame graphs.
    
    This feature is applicable to TiDB clusters deployed or upgraded using TiUP of v1.9.0 or later or TiDB Operator of v1.3.0 or later.
    
    This feature is not enabled by default. You can enable it in TiDB Dashboard.
    
    [User document](/dashboard/continuous-profiling.md)
```

### Performance

* Enhanced Raft Engine

    By default, [Raft Engine](https://github.com/tikv/raft-engine) is used as the storage engine for TiKV logs. Compared with RocksDB, Raft Engine can reduce TiKV I/O write traffic by up to 40% and CPU usage by 10%, while improving foreground throughput by about 5% under certain loads and reducing long-tail latency by 20%.

    [User document](/tikv-configuration-file#raft-engine)，[issue 号]()

* Cache hotspot small tables

>     For customer applications in scenarios where hotspot small tables are accessed, TiDB supports explicitly caching the hotspot tables in memory, which greatly improves the access performance, improves the throughput, and reduces the access latency. This solution can effectively avoid introducing a third-party cache middleware, reduce the complexity of the architecture, and reduce the cost of operation and maintenance management. This solution is suitable for scenarios where small tables are frequently accessed and rarely updated, such as the configuration tables or exchange rate tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For customer applications in scenarios where hotspot small tables are accessed, TiDB supports explicitly caching the hotspot tables in memory, which greatly improves the access performance, improves the throughput, and reduces access latency. This solution can effectively avoid introducing a third-party cache middleware, reduce the complexity of the architecture, and cut the cost of operation and maintenance management. The solution is suitable for scenarios where small tables are frequently accessed and rarely updated, such as the configuration tables or exchange rate tables.
```

    [User document]()，[issue 号]()

* In-memory pessimistic locking

    Since TiDB v6.0.0, in-memory pessimistic locking is enabled by default. After enabling this feature, pessimistic transaction locks are managed in memory. This avoids persisting pessimistic locks and the Raft replication of the lock information, and greatly reduces the overhead of managing pessimistic transaction locks. Under the performance bottleneck caused by pessimistic locks, memory optimization for pessimistic locks can effectively reduce latency by 10% and increase QPS by 10%.

    [User document]()，[issue 号]()

> * Add the `tidb_rc_read_check_ts` system variable at the [Read Committed isolation level](/transaction-isolation-levels.md#read-committed-isolation-level) to reduce the obtaining of unnecessary TSO when read-write conflicts are rare, which can reduce query latency. This variable is disabled by default. When it is enabled, the optimization can almost help avoid obtaining duplicated TSO to reduce latency in scenarios with no read-write conflict. However, in scenarios with frequent read-write conflicts, enabling this variable might cause performance regression. Do not use it before checking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Optimization to get TSO at the Read Committed isolation level

    To reduce query latency, when read-write conflicts are rare, TiDB adds the `tidb_rc_read_check_ts` system variable at the [Read Committed isolation level](/transaction-isolation-levels.md#read-committed-isolation-level) to get less unnecessary TSO. This variable is disabled by default. When the variable is enabled, this optimization can almost help avoid getting duplicated TSO to reduce latency in scenarios with no read-write conflict. However, in scenarios with frequent read-write conflicts, enabling this variable might cause a performance regression. Do not use it before checking.

    [User docs]()，[issue 号]()
```

* Enable all I/O checks (Checksum) by default

    This feature was introduced in v5.4.0 as experimental. It enhances data accuracy and security without imposing an obvious impact on users’ businesses.

    Warning: Newer version of data format cannot be downgraded in place to versions earlier than v5.4.0. During such a downgrade, you need to delete TiFlash replicas and replicate data after the downgrade. Alternatively, you can perform a downgrade by referring to [dttool migrate](/tiflash-command-line-flags.md#dttool-migrate).

    [User document](/use-tiflash.md#use-data-validation)

* Improve thread utilization

    TiFlash introduces asynchronous GRPC and Min-TSO scheduling mechanisms. Such mechanisms ensure more efficient use of threads and avoids system crashes caused by excessive threads.

    [User document](/monitor-tiflash.md#coprocessor)

### TiDB Data Migration (DM)

* Add WebUI (experimental)

    On the newly introduced WebUI, you can easily manage a large number of migration tasks. The WebUI supports:

    * Dashboard
    * Migration task management
    * Upstream configuration
    * Replication status query
    * Master and Worker management

>     WebUI is still experimental and needs improvement. Therefore, it is recommended only for trial. A known issue is that problems might occur if you use WebUI and dmctl  to operate the same task. This issue will be resolved in the next version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    WebUI is still experimental and needs improvement. Therefore, it is recommended only for trial. A known issue is that problems might occur if you use WebUI and dmctl  to operate the same task. This issue will be resolved in later versions.
```

    * Optimize the error message of the `RENAME TABLE` statement [#29893](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29893)
    * Add the system variable [`tidb_sysdate_is_now`]() to enable the `SYSDATE` function to use the results of the `NOW` function [#31872](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31872)
    * Support showing the `CREATE_TIME` information in the results of the `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS` statement [#23494](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23494)
    * Support a new built-in function `CHARSET()` [#3931](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/3931)
    * Support filtering the automatically captured blacklist by usernames [#32558](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32558)
    * Optimize the results of `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS` and `SHOW TABLE STATUS` statement by displaying the time according to the current `time_zone` [#26642](​​https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26642)
    * Supports pushing down the `DAYNAME()` and `MONTHNAME()` functions to TiFlash [#32594](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32594)

>     * Support pushing down the `REGEXP` function to TiFlash (#32637)[https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32637]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Support pushing down the `REGEXP` function to TiFlash [#32637](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32637)
```

    [User document](/dm/dm-create-task.md#flags-description)

### TiDB Lightning

* Maximum tolerable error

    Added a configuration item `max-error`. The default value is 0. When the value is greater than 0, the max-error function is enabled. If an error occurs in a row during encoding, a record containing this row is added to `type_error_v1` and this row is ignored. When rows with errors exceed the threshold, TiDB Lightning exits immediately.

    Matching the `max-error` configuration, the `lightning_task_info` configuration item records the name of the database that reports a data saving error.

    This feature does not cover all types of errors, for example, syntax errors are not applicable.

    [User document](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md#type-error)

### Data sharing and subscription

* Support replicating 100K tables simultaneously

>     By optimizing the data processing flow, TiCDC reduces the resource consumption of processing incremental data for each table, which greatly improves the replication stability and efficiencywhen replicating data in large clusters. The result of an internal test shows that TiCDC can stably support replicating 100,000 tables simultaneously.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    By optimizing the data processing flow, TiCDC reduces the resource consumption of processing incremental data for each table, which greatly improves the replication stability and efficiency when replicating data in large clusters. The result of an internal test shows that TiCDC can stably support replicating 100,000 tables simultaneously.
```

---
title: TiDB 6.0.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.0.0 Release Notes

Release date: x x, 2022

TiDB version: 6.0.0-DMR

In 6.0.0-DMR, the key new features or improvements are as follows:

- Support placement rules in SQL
- Add a check for data index consistency at the kernel level
- Enhance Raft Engine
- Accelerate leader balancing after restarting TiKV nodes
- Support canceling the automatic update of statistics
- Optimize the overhead of obtaining TSO at the Read Committed isolation level
- Enhance prepared statements to share execution plans
- Enhance function queries

> - TiKV 过载资源保护增强（实验特性)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Provide Quota Limiter
```

- Cache hotspot small tables
- 批量更新热点索引
- Optimize in-memory pessimistic locking

> - TiEM 图形化管理界面

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- TiDB Enterprise Manager, an enterprise-level database management platform
```

> - Provide PingCAP Clinic, the automatic diagnosis tool for TiDB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Provide PingCAP Clinic, the automatic diagnosis tool for TiDB (Technical Preview version)
```

## New features

### SQL

- SQL-based placement rules for data

    TiDB is a distributed database with excellent scalability. Usually, data is deployed across multiple servers or even multiple data centers. Therefore, data scheduling management is one of the most important basic capabilities of TiDB. In most cases, customers do not need to care about how to schedule and manage data. However, with the increasing application complexity, deployment changes caused by isolation and access latency have become new challenges for TiDB. Since v6.0.0, TiDB officially provides data scheduling and management capabilities based on SQL interfaces. It supports flexible scheduling and management in dimensions such as replica counts, role types, and placement locations for any data. TiDB also supports more flexible management for data placement in multi-service shared clusters and cross-AZ deployments.

    [User document](/placement-rules-in-sql.md)

- Support building TiFlash replicas by databases. To add TiFlash replicas for all tables in a database, you only need to use a single SQL statement, which greatly saves operation and maintenance costs.

>     [User document](/tiflash/use-tiflash.md#按库构建-tiflash-副本)

Reviewer 3: @shichun-0415 Please help update this anchor link when it is available. Thanks!

Reviewer 2: > @shichun-0415 Please help update this anchor link when it is available. Thanks!

Fixed.

    After a restart, TiKV nodes need to redistribute the unevenly scattered leaders for load balance. In large-scale clusters, leader balancing time is positively correlated with the number of Regions. For example, the leader balancing of 100K Regions can take 20-30 minutes, which is prone to performance issues and stability risks due to uneven load. TiDB 6.0 provides a parameter to control the balancing concurrency and adjusts the default value to 4 times of the original, which greatly shortens the leader rebalancing time and accelerates the business recovery after a restart of TiKV nodes.

    [User documentation](/pd-control.md#scheduler-show--add--remove--pause--resume--config)

- Support canceling the automatic update of statistics

    Statistics are one of the most important basic data that affects SQL performance. To ensure the completeness and timeliness of statistics, TiDB updates statistics periodically. Since v6.0, you can cancel the automatic update of statistics manually, which avoids any SQL performance impact caused by resource contention of the automatic update task.

    [user documentation](/statistics.md#automatic-update)

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

### TiDB Enterprise Manager

TiDB Enterprise Manager (TiEM) is an enterprise-level database management platform based on the TiDB database, which aims to help users deploy, monitor, back up, and scale TiDB clusters in on-premises or public cloud environments.

TiEM not only provides full lifecycle visual management for TiDB clusters, but also provides one-stop parameter management, version upgrades, cluster clone, active-standby cluster switching, data import and export, data replication, data backup and restore services. TiEM can improve the efficiency of DevOps on TiDB and reduce the DevOps cost for enterprises.

Currently, TiEM is for the [TiDB Enterprise](https://en.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/) edition only. To get TiEM and its documentation, contact to us via the [TiDB Enterprise](https://en.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/) page.

```

Reviewer: Suggestions for the second and third parts:

TiEM not only provides full lifecycle visual management for TiDB clusters but also provides one-stop services: parameter management, version upgrades, cluster clone, active-standby cluster switching, data import and export, data replication,  and data backup and restore services. With TiEM, you can improve the efficiency of DevOps on TiDB and reduce the DevOps cost for enterprises.

Currently, TiEM is for the [TiDB Enterprise](https://en.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/) edition only. To get TiEM and its documentation, contact us via the [TiDB Enterprise](https://en.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/) page.

> ## Improvements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### PingCAP Clinic diagnostic service (Technical Preview version)

PingCAP Clinic is a diagnostic service for TiDB clusters. This service helps to troubleshoot cluster problems remotely and provides a quick check of cluster status locally. With PingCAP Clinic, you can ensure the stable operation of your TiDB cluster for its full life cycle, predict potential problems, reduce the probability of problems, troubleshoot cluster problems quickly, and fix cluster problems.

When your cluster has some problems, you can contact PingCAP technical support for remote assistance. In this situation, you can help improve the troubleshooting efficiency by collecting and uploading diagnostic data using PingCAP Clinic service.

[User documentation](/clinic-introduction.md)

## Improvements
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### PingCAP Clinic diagnostic service (Technical Preview version)

PingCAP Clinic is a diagnostic service for TiDB clusters. This service helps users troubleshoot cluster issues remotely and provides a quick check of cluster status locally. With PingCAP Clinic, you can ensure the stable operation of your TiDB cluster for its full life cycle, predict potential issues, reduce the probability of issues, quickly troubleshoot and fix cluster issues.

When contacting PingCAP technical support for remote assistance to troubleshoot cluster issues, you can use the PingCAP Clinic service to collect and upload diagnostic data, thereby improving the troubleshooting efficiency.

[User documentation](/clinic-introduction.md)

## Improvements
```

Reviewer: > 

this part is moved to line 356, so I will remove this one.

    - Add a performance overview monitoring dashboard to show core performance metrics on typical critical paths, making metrics analysis on TiDB easier  [#31676](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31676)
    - Support using the `REPLACE` keyword in the `LOAD DATA LOCAL INFILE` statement [#24515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24515)
    - (dup: release-5.1.4.md > Improvements> TiDB)- Support partition pruning for the built-in `IN` expression in Range partition tables [#26739](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26739)
    - Improve query efficiency by eliminating potentially redundant Exchange operations in MPP aggregation queries  [#31762](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31762)
    - Improve compatibility with MySQL by allowing duplicate partition names in the `TRUNCATE PARTITION` and `DROP PARTITION` statements [#31681](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31681)
    - Support showing the `CREATE_TIME` information in the results of the `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS` statement [#23494](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23494)
    - Support a new built-in function `CHARSET()` [#3931](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/3931)

>     - Support filtering the automatically captured blacklist by usernames [#32558](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32558)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Support filtering a baseline capturing blocklist by usernames [#32558](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32558)
```
用户文档，自动捕获是 baseline capturing，黑名单是 blocklist。

>     - Optimize the results of `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS` and `SHOW TABLE STATUS` statement by displaying the time according to the current `time_zone` [#26642](​​https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26642)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the results of the `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS` and `SHOW TABLE STATUS` statements by displaying the time according to the current `time_zone` [#26642](​​https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26642)
```

    - Supports pushing down the `DAYNAME()` and `MONTHNAME()` functions to TiFlash [#32594](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32594)
    - Support pushing down the `REGEXP` function to TiFlash [#32637](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32637)
    - Support tracking the execution of the `UnionScan` operator [#32631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32631)
    - Support pushing down the `GREATEST` and `LEAST` functions to TiFlash [#32787](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32787)
    - Support using the PointGet plan for queries that read the `_tidb_rowid` column [#31543](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31543)

>     - Support using wildcards in the automatically captured blacklist [#32714](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32714)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Support using wildcards in a baseline capturing blocklist [#32714](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32714)
```

    - Support showing the original partition name in the output of the `EXPLAIN` statement without converting the name to lowercase [#32719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32719)
    - Enable partition pruning for RANGE COLUMNS partitionings on IN conditions and string type columns [#32626](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32626)

>     - Return an error message when you set a system variable to NULL [#32850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32850)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Return an error message when a system variable is set to NULL [#32850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32850)
```

    * Remove Broadcast Join from the non-MPP mode [#31465](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31465)
    * Support pushing down the ` DAYOFMONTH()` and ` LAST_DAY()` functions to TiFlash [#33012](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33012)
    * Support pushing down the `DAYOFWEEK()` and `DAYOFYEAR()` functions to TiFlash [#33130](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33130)
    * Support pushing down the `IS_TRUE`, `IS_FALSE`, and `IS_TRUE_WITH_NULL` functions to TiFlash [#33047](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33047)
    * Support executing MPP plans on partitioned tables in dynamic pruning mode [#32347](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32347)

>     * 支持 read-consistency 读取可在 `READ-COMMITTED` 隔离级别下打开优化事务内读语句延迟  Support enabling the switch to reduce read latency in transaction at the `READ-COMMITTED` isolation level for the read-consistency read [#33159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33159)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

>     - 支持 read-consistency 读取可在 `READ-COMMITTED` 隔离级别下打开优化事务内读语句延迟  Support enabling the switch to reduce read latency in transaction at the `READ-COMMITTED` isolation level for the read-consistency read [#33159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33159)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Support enabling the switch to reduce read latency in transactions at the `READ-COMMITTED` isolation level for the read-consistency read [#33159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33159)
```

    - Fix the bug that the selection operator can not be pushed down when an  aggregation contains the having condition [#33166](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33166)
    - Fix the bug that CTE may be blocked when a query reports errors [#31302](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31302)
    - Fix the bug that excessive length of varbinary or varchar columns when creating tables in non-strict mode may result in errors [#30328](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30328)
    - Fix the wrong number of followers in `information_schema.placement_policies`when no follower is specified [#31702](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31702)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB allows to specify column prefix length as 0 when an index is created [#31972](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31972)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB allows partition names ending with spaces [#31535](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31535)
    - Fix the wrong message of the `RENAME TABLE` statement [#29893](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29893)

+ TiKV

>     - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the panic issue caused by deleting snapshot files when the peer status is `Applying` [#11746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11746)修复 Peer 状态为 Applying 时快照文件被删除会造成 Panic 的问题 [#11746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11746)
>     - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue of QPS drop when flow control is enabled and `level0_slowdown_trigger` is set explicitly [#11424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11424)修复开启流量控制且显式设置 level0_slowdown_trigger 时出现 QPS 下降的问题 [#11424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11424)
>     - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that destroying a peer might cause high latency [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)修复删除 Peer 可能造成高延迟的问题 [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the panic issue caused by deleting snapshot files when the peer status is `Applying` [#11746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11746)
    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue of QPS drop when flow control is enabled and `level0_slowdown_trigger` is set explicitly [#11424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11424)
    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that destroying a peer might cause high latency [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)
```

    - Fix the potential issue of reporting TiKV panics when exiting TiKV [#12231](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12231)

+ PD

    - Fix the issue that the operator creates steps with meaningless Joint Consensus [#4534](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4534)
    - Fix a bug that the TSO revoking might get stuck when closing the PD client [#4550](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4550)
    - Fix the issue that the Region scatterer scheduling might cause lost peers [#4570](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4570)
    - Fix the issue that `Duration` fields of `dr-autosync` cannot be dynamically configured [#4653](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4653)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue of TiFlash panic when the memory limit is enabled [#3902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3902)
    - Fix the issue that expired data is recycled slowly [#4146]([https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3902)4146)
    - Fix the potential issue of TiFlash panic when `Snapshot` is applied simultaneously with multiple DDL operations [#4072]([https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3902)4072)

>     - Fix the potential query error after adding columns under heavy read workload [https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3967](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3967)
>     - Fix the issue that the `SQRT` function with a negative argument returns `NaN` instead of `Null` [#3598] [https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3598](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3598)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the potential query error after adding columns under heavy read workload [#3967](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3967)
    - Fix the issue that the `SQRT` function with a negative argument returns `NaN` instead of `Null` [#3598](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3598)
```

    - Fix the issue that the result of `IN` is incorrect in multi-value expressions [#4016](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4016)
    - Fix the issue that the date format identifies `'\n'` as an invalid separator [#4036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4036)
    - Fix the issue that the learner-read process takes too much time under high concurrency scenarios [#3555](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3555)
    - Fix the wrong result that occurs when casting `DATETIME` to `DECIMAL` [#4151](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4151)
    - Fix the issue of memory leak that occurs when a query is canceled [#4098](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4098)
    - Fix bug that enabling the elastic thread pool might introduce memory leak [#4098](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4098)
    - Fix a bug that canceled MPP queries might cause tasks to hang forever when the local tunnel is enabled [#4229](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4229)
    - Fix a bug that the failure of HashJoin build side might cause MPP queries to hang forever [#4195](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4195)

>     - Fix a bug that MPP tasks might leak threads forever [https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4238](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4238)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that MPP tasks might leak threads forever [#4238](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4238)
```

| [`tidb_sysdate_is_now`](/system-variables.md#tidb_sysdate_is_now-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Controls whether the `SYSDATE` function can be replaced by the `NOW` function. This configuration item has the same effect as the MySQL option [`sysdate-is-now`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/server-options.html#option_mysqld_sysdate-is-now). The default value is `OFF`. |
| [`tidb_table_cache_lease`](/system-variables.md#tidb_table_cache_lease-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Controls the lease time of [table cache](/cached-tables.md), in seconds. The default value is `3`. |
| [`tidb_top_sql_max_meta_count`](/system-variables.md#tidb_top_sql_max_meta_count-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of SQL statement types collected by [Top SQL](/dashboard/top-sql.md) per minute. The default is `5000`. |
| [`tidb_top_sql_max_time_series_count`](/system-variables.md#tidb_top_sql_max_time_series_count-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Controls how many SQL statements that contribute the most to the load (that is, top N) can be recorded by [Top SQL](/dashboard/top-sql.md) per minute. The default is `100`. |

> | [`tidb_txn_assertion_level`](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_assertion_level-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Controls the assertion level. The assertion is a data index consistency check performed during the transaction commit process. By default, the check has only minor impact on performance and includes most of the check items.  |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_txn_assertion_level`](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_assertion_level-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Controls the assertion level. The assertion is a consistency check between data and indexes, which checks whether a key being written exists in the transaction commit process. By default, the check enables most of the check items, with almost no impact on performance.  |
```

    [User documentation](/pd-control.md#scheduler-config-balance-leader-scheduler), [#4610](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4610)

- Support canceling the automatic update of statistics

    Statistics are one of the most important basic data that affect SQL performance. To ensure the completeness and timeliness of statistics, TiDB automatically updates object statistics periodically in the background. However, automatic statistics updates may result in resource contention, affecting SQL performance. To address this issue, you can manually cancel the automatic update of statistics since v6.0.

>     [user documentation](/statistics.md#automatic-update)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    [User documentation](/statistics.md#automatic-update)
```

    TiEM not only provides full lifecycle visual management for TiDB clusters, but also provides one-stop services: parameter management, version upgrades, cluster clone, active-standby cluster switching, data import and export, data replication, and data backup and restore services. TiEM can improve the efficiency of DevOps on TiDB and reduce the DevOps cost for enterprises.

    Currently, TiEM is provided in the [TiDB Enterprise](https://en.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/) edition only. To get TiEM, contact us via the [TiDB Enterprise](https://en.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/) page.

- Support customizing configurations of the monitoring components

    When you deploy a TiDB cluster using TiUP, TiUP automatically deploys monitoring components such as Prometheus, Grafana, and Alertmanager, and automatically adds new nodes into the monitoring scope after scale-out. You can customize the configurations of the monitoring components by adding configuration items to the `topology.yaml` file.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

    [User document](/tiup/customized-montior-in-tiup-environment.md)

```

    - Support showing the original partition name in the output of the `EXPLAIN` statement without converting the name to lowercase [#32719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32719)
    - Enable partition pruning for RANGE COLUMNS partitionings on IN conditions and string type columns [#32626](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32626)
    - Return an error message when a system variable is set to NULL [#32850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32850)
    - Remove Broadcast Join from the non-MPP mode [#31465](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31465)
    - Support executing MPP plans on partitioned tables in dynamic pruning mode [#32347](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32347)
    - Support pushing down predicates for common table expressions (CTEs) [#28163](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28163)
    - Simplify the configurations of `Statement Summary` and `Capture Plan Baselines` to be available on a global basis only [#30557](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30557)
    - Update gopsutil to v3.21.12 to address alarms reported when building binary on macOS 12 [#31607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31607)

+ TiKV

>     - Improve the Raftstore sampling accuracy for large key range batches [#11039](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11039)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Improve the Raftstore sampling accuracy for large key range batches [#12327](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12327)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.0.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.0.0 Release Notes

Release date: x x, 2022

TiDB version: 6.0.0-DMR

In 6.0.0-DMR, the key new features or improvements are as follows:

- Support placement rules in SQL to provide more flexible management for data placement.
- Add a consistency check between data and indexes at the kernel level, which improves system stability and robustness, with only very low resource overhead.
- Provide Top SQL, a self-serving database performance monitoring and diagnosis feature for non-experts.
- Support Continuous Profiling that collects cluster performance data all the time, reducing MTTR for technical experts.
- Cache hotspot small tables in memory, which greatly improves the access performance, improves the throughput, and reduces access latency.
- Optimize in-memory pessimistic locking. Under the performance bottleneck caused by pessimistic locks, memory optimization for pessimistic locks can effectively reduce latency by 10% and increase QPS by 10%.
- Enhance prepared statements to share execution plans, which lessens CPU resource consumption and improves SQL execution efficiency.

> - Improve the computing performance of the MPP engine by pushing down more functions and operators and introducing the dynamic thread pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve the computing performance of the MPP engine by supporting pushing down more functions and operators and the general availability (GA) of the elastic thread pool.
```

    [User document](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md#add-to-the-blocklist), [#30738](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30738)

- Support dynamic pruning mode for partitioned tables in TiFlash MPP engine (experimental)

    In this mode, TiDB can read and compute the data on partitioned tables using the MPP engine of TiFlash, which greatly improves the query performance of partitioned tables.

    [User document](/tiflash/use-tiflash.md#access-partitioned-tables-in-the-mpp-mode)

- Improve the computing performance of the MPP engine

    - Support pushing down more functions and operators to the MPP engine

        - Logical functions: `IS`, `IS NOT`
        - String functions: `REGEXP()`, `NOT REGEXP()`
        - Mathmatical functions: `GREATEST(int/real)`, `LEAST(int/real)`
        - Date functions: `DAYOFNAME()`, `DAYOFMONTH()`, `DAYOFWEEK()`, `DAYOFYEAR()`, `LAST_DAY()`, `MONTHNAME()`
        - Operators: Anti Left Outer Semi Join, Left Outer Semi Join

        [User document](/tiflash/use-tiflash.md#supported-push-down-calculations)

>     - Introduce the dynamic thread pool (enabled by default) to improve the CPU utilization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The elastic thread pool (enabled by default) becomes general availability (GA) to improve the CPU utilization
```

- Enable all I/O checks (Checksum) by default

    This feature was introduced in v5.4.0 as experimental. It enhances data accuracy and security without imposing an obvious impact on users’ businesses.

    Warning: Newer version of data format cannot be downgraded in place to versions earlier than v5.4.0. During such a downgrade, you need to delete TiFlash replicas and replicate data after the downgrade. Alternatively, you can perform a downgrade by referring to [dttool migrate](/tiflash/tiflash-command-line-flags.md#dttool-migrate).

    [User document](/tiflash/use-tiflash.md#use-data-validation)

- Improve thread utilization

    TiFlash introduces asynchronous GRPC and Min-TSO scheduling mechanisms. Such mechanisms ensure more efficient use of threads and avoid system crashes caused by excessive threads.

    [User document](/tiflash/monitor-tiflash.md#coprocessor)

### Data Migration

#### TiDB Data Migration (DM)

- Add WebUI (experimental)

    With the WebUI, you can easily manage a large number of migration tasks. On the WebUI, you can:

    - View migration tasks on Dashboard
    - Manage migration tasks
    - Configure upstream settings
    - Query replication status 

>     -  View master and worker information

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - View master and worker information
```

    - Support pushing down the `GREATEST` and `LEAST` functions to TiFlash [#32787](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32787)
    - Support tracking the execution of the `UnionScan` operator [#32631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32631)
    - Support using the PointGet plan for queries that read the `_tidb_rowid` column [#31543](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31543)
    - Support showing the original partition name in the output of the `EXPLAIN` statement without converting the name to lowercase [#32719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32719)
    - Enable partition pruning for RANGE COLUMNS partitionings on IN conditions and string type columns [#32626](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32626)
    - Return an error message when a system variable is set to NULL [#32850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32850)
    - Remove Broadcast Join from the non-MPP mode [#31465](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31465)
    - Support executing MPP plans on partitioned tables in dynamic pruning mode [#32347](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32347)

>     - Support enabling the switch to reduce read latency in transactions at the `READ-COMMITTED` isolation level for the read-consistency read [#33159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33159)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

---
title: TiDB 6.0.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.0.0 Release Notes

Release date: x x, 2022

TiDB version: 6.0.0-DMR

In 6.0.0-DMR, the key new features or improvements are as follows:

- Support placement rules in SQL
- Add a check for data index consistency at the kernel level
- Accelerate leader balancing after restarting TiKV nodes
- Support canceling the automatic update of statistics
- Optimize the overhead of obtaining TSO at the Read Committed isolation level
- Enhance prepared statements to share execution plans

> - Enhance function queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve query pushdown
```

- Enhance prepared statements to share execution plans

    Reusing SQL execution plans can effectively reduce the time for parsing SQL statements, lessen CPU resource consumption, and improve SQL execution efficiency. One of the important methods of SQL tuning is to reuse SQL execution plans effectively. TiDB has supported sharing execution plans with prepared statements. However, when the prepared statements are closed, TiDB automatically clears the corresponding plan cache. After that, TiDB might unnecessarily parse the repeated SQL statements, affecting the execution efficiency. Since v6.0.0, TiDB supports controlling whether to ignore the `COM_STMT_CLOSE` directive through the `tidb_ignore_clost_stmt_cmd` parameter (disabled by default). When the parameter is enabled, TiDB ignores the directive of closing prepared statements and keeps the execution plan in the cache, improving the reuse rate of the execution plan.

    [User document](/sql-prepare-plan-cache.md#ignore-the-com_stmt_close-command-and-the-deallocate-prepare-statement), [#31056](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31056)

- Improve query pushdown

>     With its native architecture of separating computing from storage, TiDB supports filtering out invalid data by pushing down operators, which greatly reduces the data transmission between TiDB and TiKV and thereby improves the query efficiency. In v6.0.0, TiDB supports pushing down more expressions and the `BIT` data type to TiKV, improving the query efficiency when computing those expressions and data types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    With its native architecture of separating computing from storage, TiDB supports filtering out invalid data by pushing down operators, which greatly reduces the data transmission between TiDB and TiKV and thereby improves the query efficiency. In v6.0.0, TiDB supports pushing down more expressions and the `BIT` data type to TiKV, improving the query efficiency when computing those expressions and data type.
```

    [User document](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md#add-to-the-blocklist), [#30738](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30738)

- Support dynamic pruning mode for partitioned tables in TiFlash MPP engine (experimental)

    In this mode, TiDB can read and compute the data on partitioned tables using the MPP engine of TiFlash, which greatly improves the query performance of partitioned tables.

    [User document](/tiflash/use-tiflash.md#access-partitioned-tables-in-the-mpp-mode)

- Improve the computing performance of the MPP engine

    - Support pushing down more functions and operators to the MPP engine

        - Logical functions: `IS`, `IS NOT`
        - String functions: `REGEXP()`, `NOT REGEXP()`

>         - Mathmatical functions: `GREATEST(int/real)`, `LEAST(int/real)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Mathematical functions: `GREATEST(int/real)`, `LEAST(int/real)`
```

        - Operators: Anti Left Outer Semi Join, Left Outer Semi Join

        [User document](/tiflash/use-tiflash.md#supported-push-down-calculations)

    - Introduce the dynamic thread pool (enabled by default) to improve the CPU utilization

        [User document](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file)

### Stability

- Enhance baseline capturing of execution plans

    Enhance the usability of baseline capturing of execution plans by adding a blocklist with such dimensions as table name, frequency, and user name. Introduce a new algorithm to optimize memory management for caching bindings. After baseline capturing is enabled, the system automatically creates bindings for most OLTP queries. Execution plans of bound statements are fixed, avoiding performance problems due to any change in the execution plans. Baseline capturing is applicable to scenarios such as major version upgrades and cluster migration, and helps reduce performance problems caused by regression of execution plans.

    [User document](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-capturing), [#32466](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32466)

- Support TiKV quota limiter (experimental)

>     If your machine deployed with TiKV has limited resources and the foreground is burdened by an excessively large amount of requests, background CPU resources are occupied by the foreground, causing TiKV performance unstable. In TiDB v6.0, you can use the quota-related configuration items to limit the resources used by the foreground, including CPU and read/write bandwidth. This greatly improves stability of clusters under long-term heavy workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If your machine deployed with TiKV has limited resources and the foreground is burdened by an excessively large amount of requests, background CPU resources are occupied by the foreground, causing TiKV performance unstable. In TiDB v6.0.0, you can use the quota-related configuration items to limit the resources used by the foreground, including CPU and read/write bandwidth. This greatly improves stability of clusters under long-term heavy workloads.
```

    TiFlash introduces two parameters, profiles.default.dt_compression_method and profiles.default.dt_compression_level, which allows users to select the optimal compression algorithm based on performance and capacity balance.

    [User document](/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file)

- Enable all I/O checks (Checksum) by default

    This feature was introduced in v5.4.0 as experimental. It enhances data accuracy and security without imposing an obvious impact on users’ businesses.

    Warning: Newer version of data format cannot be downgraded in place to versions earlier than v5.4.0. During such a downgrade, you need to delete TiFlash replicas and replicate data after the downgrade. Alternatively, you can perform a downgrade by referring to [dttool migrate](/tiflash-command-line-flags.md#dttool-migrate).

    [User document](/use-tiflash.md#use-data-validation)

- Improve thread utilization

    TiFlash introduces asynchronous GRPC and Min-TSO scheduling mechanisms. Such mechanisms ensure more efficient use of threads and avoids system crashes caused by excessive threads.

    [User document](/monitor-tiflash.md#coprocessor)

> 
> ### TiDB Data Migration (DM)

Author: ```suggestion

### Data Migration

#### TiDB Data Migration (DM)
```

>     [User document](/tikv-configuration-file.md#quota), [#12264](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/12264)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    [User document](/tikv-configuration-file.md#quota), [#12131](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12131)
```

>     On the WebUI, you can easily manage a large number of migration tasks. The WebUI supports:

Reviewer 5: `on` or `with?`

>     On the WebUI, you can easily manage a large number of migration tasks. The WebUI supports:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    With the WebUI, you can easily manage a large number of migration tasks. The WebUI supports:
```

>     With the WebUI, you can easily manage a large number of migration tasks. The WebUI supports:
> 
>     - Dashboard
>     - Migration task management
>     - Upstream configuration
>     - Replication status query

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    With the WebUI, you can easily manage a large number of migration tasks. On the WebUI, you can:

    - View migration tasks on Dashboard
    - Manage migration tasks
    - Configure upstream settings
    - Query replication status 
```

>     - Master and Worker management

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    -  View master and worker
```

    [User document](/dm/dm-manage-schema.md)

- Support full data storage to Amazon S3

    When DM performs all or full data migration tasks, sufficient hard disk space is required for storing full data from upstream. Compared with EBS, Amazon S3 has nearly infinite storage at lower costs. Now, DM supports configuring Amazon S3 as the dump directory. That means you can use S3 to store full data when you perform all or full data migration tasks.

    [User document](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md#task-configuration-file-template-advanced)

- Support starting a migration task from specified time

    A new parameter `--start-time` is added to migration tasks. You can define time in the format of '2021-10-21 00:01:00' or '2021-10-21T00:01:00'.

    This feature is particularly useful in scenarios where you migrate and merge incremental data from shard mysql instances. Specifically, you do not need to set a binlog start point for each incremental migration task. Instead, you can complete an incremental migration task faster by using the `--start-time` parameter in `safe-mode`.

    [User document](/dm/dm-create-task.md#flags-description)

> ### TiDB Lightning

Author: ```suggestion
#### TiDB Lightning
```

>     This feature is particularly useful in scenarios where you migrate and merge incremental data from shard mysql instances. Specifically, you do not need to set a binlog start point for each incremental migration task. Instead, you can complete an incremental migration task faster by using the `--start-time` parameter in `safe-mode`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    This feature is particularly useful in scenarios where you migrate and merge incremental data from shard mysql instances. Specifically, you do not need to set a binlog start point for each source in an incremental migration task. Instead, you can create an incremental migration task faster by using the `--start-time` parameter in `safe-mode`.
```

>     Added a configuration item `max-error`. The default value is 0. When the value is greater than 0, the max-error feature is enabled. If an error occurs in a row during encoding, a record containing this row is added to `type_error_v1` and this row is ignored. When rows with errors exceed the threshold, TiDB Lightning exits immediately.

Reviewer 5: Refer to Chinese comments

>     Added a configuration item `max-error`. The default value is 0. When the value is greater than 0, the max-error feature is enabled. If an error occurs in a row during encoding, a record containing this row is added to `type_error_v1` and this row is ignored. When rows with errors exceed the threshold, TiDB Lightning exits immediately.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    Added a configuration item `lightning.max-error`. The default value is 0. When the value is greater than 0, the max-error feature is enabled. If an error occurs in a row during encoding, a record containing this row is added to `lightning_task_info.type_error_v1` in the target TiDB and this row is ignored. When rows with errors exceed the threshold, TiDB Lightning exits immediately.
```

>     Matching the `max-error` configuration, the `lightning_task_info` configuration item records the name of the database that reports a data saving error.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    Matching the `max-error` configuration, the `lightning.task-info-schema-name` configuration item records the name of the database that reports a data saving error.
```

>     Matching the `max-error` configuration, the `lightning.task-info-schema-name` configuration item records the name of the database that reports a data saving error.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    Matching the `lightning.max-error` configuration, the `lightning.task-info-schema-name` configuration item records the name of the database that reports a data saving error.
```

    Since v4.0, TiDB has supported new collation rules that behave the same way as MySQL in the case-insensitive, accent-insensitive, and padding rules. The new collation rules are controlled by the `new_collations_enabled_on_first_bootstrap` parameter, which was disabled by default. Since v6.0, TiDB enables the new collation rules by default. Note that this configuration is configurable only upon TiDB cluster initialization.

    [User documentation](/tidb-configuration-file.md#new_collations_enabled_on_first_bootstrap)

- ​​Accelerate leader balancing after restarting TiKV nodes

    After a restart of TiKV nodes, the unevenly scattered leaders must be redistributed for load balance. In large-scale clusters, leader balancing time is positively correlated with the number of Regions. For example, the leader balancing of 100K Regions can take 20-30 minutes, which is prone to performance issues and stability risks due to uneven load. TiDB v6.0 provides a parameter to control the balancing concurrency and enlarges the default value to 4 times of the original, which greatly shortens the leader rebalancing time and accelerates the business recovery after a restart of the TiKV nodes.

>     [User documentation](/pd-control.md#scheduler-show--add--remove--pause--resume--config)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    [User documentation](/pd-control.md#scheduler-config-balance-leader-scheduler), [#4610](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4610)
```

    When contacting PingCAP technical support for remote assistance to troubleshoot cluster issues, you can use the PingCAP Clinic service to collect and upload diagnostic data, thereby improving the troubleshooting efficiency.

    [User documentation](/clinic-introduction.md)

- An enterprise-level database management platform, TiDB Enterprise Manager

    TiDB Enterprise Manager (TiEM) is an enterprise-level database management platform based on the TiDB database, which aims to help users deploy, monitor, back up, and scale TiDB clusters in on-premises or public cloud environments.

    TiEM not only provides full lifecycle visual management for TiDB clusters, but also provides one-stop services: parameter management, version upgrades, cluster clone, active-standby cluster switching, data import and export, data replication, and data backup and restore services. TiEM can improve the efficiency of DevOps on TiDB and reduce the DevOps cost for enterprises.

    Currently, TiEM is provided in the [TiDB Enterprise](https://en.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/) edition only. To get TiEM, contact us via the [TiDB Enterprise](https://en.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/) page.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

- Support customized configuration for the monitoring components

    When you deploy a TiDB cluster using TiUP, TiUP automatically deploys monitoring components such as Prometheus, Grafana, and Alertmanager, and automatically adds monitoring configurations for new nodes during cluster scale-out. You can customize the configuration for the monitoring components by adding configuration items to the `topology.yaml` file.

```

>     PingCAP Clinic is a diagnostic service for TiDB clusters. This service helps troubleshoot cluster issues remotely and provides a quick check of cluster status locally. With PingCAP Clinic, you can ensure the stable operation of your TiDB cluster for its full life cycle, predict potential issues, reduce the probability of issues, and quickly troubleshoot and fix cluster issues.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    PingCAP Clinic is a diagnostic service for TiDB clusters. This service helps troubleshoot cluster issues remotely and provides a quick check of cluster status locally. With PingCAP Clinic, you can ensure the stable operation of your TiDB cluster during its full life cycle, predict potential issues, reduce the probability of issues, and quickly troubleshoot cluster issues.
```

>     TiDB Enterprise Manager (TiEM) is an enterprise-level database management platform based on the TiDB database, which aims to help users manage TiDB clusters in on-premises or public cloud environments.

Reviewer 7: LGTM

    - Add a performance overview dashboard to show core performance metrics on typical critical paths, making metrics analysis on TiDB easier [#31676](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31676)
    - Support using the `REPLACE` keyword in the `LOAD DATA LOCAL INFILE` statement [#24515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24515)
    - Support partition pruning for the built-in `IN` expression in Range partition tables [#26739](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26739)
    - Improve query efficiency by eliminating potentially redundant Exchange operations in MPP aggregation queries [#31762](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31762)
    - Improve compatibility with MySQL by allowing duplicate partition names in the `TRUNCATE PARTITION` and `DROP PARTITION` statements [#31681](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31681)
    - Support showing the `CREATE_TIME` information in the results of the `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS` statement [#23494](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23494)
    - Support a new built-in function `CHARSET()` [#3931](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/3931)

>     - Support filtering a baseline capturing blocklist by usernames [#32558](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32558)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Support filtering a baseline capturing blocklist by usernames [#32558](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32558)
    - Support using wildcards in a baseline capturing blocklist [#32714](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32714)
```

    - Optimize the results of the `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS` and `SHOW TABLE STATUS` statements by displaying the time according to the current `time_zone` [#26642](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26642)
    - Supports pushing down the `DAYNAME()` and `MONTHNAME()` functions to TiFlash [#32594](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32594)
    - Support pushing down the `REGEXP` function to TiFlash [#32637](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32637)
    - Support tracking the execution of the `UnionScan` operator [#32631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32631)
    - Support pushing down the `GREATEST` and `LEAST` functions to TiFlash [#32787](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32787)
    - Support using the PointGet plan for queries that read the `_tidb_rowid` column [#31543](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31543)

>     - Support using wildcards in a baseline capturing blocklist [#32714](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32714)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

    - Support showing the original partition name in the output of the `EXPLAIN` statement without converting the name to lowercase [#32719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32719)
    - Enable partition pruning for RANGE COLUMNS partitionings on IN conditions and string type columns [#32626](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32626)
    - Return an error message when a system variable is set to NULL [#32850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32850)
    - Remove Broadcast Join from the non-MPP mode [#31465](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31465)
    - Support executing MPP plans on partitioned tables in dynamic pruning mode [#32347](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32347)
    - Support pushing down predicates for common table expressions (CTEs) [#28163](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28163)
    - Simplify the configurations of `Statement Summary` and `Capture Plan Baselines` to be available on a global basis only [#30557](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30557)
    - Update gopsutil to v3.21.12 to address alarms reported when building binary on macOS 12 [#31607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31607)

+ TiKV

>     - Improve the Raftstore sampling accuracy for large key range batches [#12327](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12327)

Reviewer: Improve the Raftstore sampling accuracy for batches with many key ranges [#12327](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12327)

        - Expose configuration parameters of the Kafka producer to make them configurable in TiCDC [#4385](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4385)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - Support starting a task when upstream table schemas are inconsistent and in optimistic mode [#3629](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3629) [#3708](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3708) [#3786](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3786)
        - Support creating a task in the `stopped` state [#4484](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4484)
        - Support Syncer using the working directory of the DM-worker rather than `/tmp` to write internal files, and cleaning the directory after the task is stopped [#4107](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4107)
        - Precheck has improved. Some important checks are no longer skipped. [#3608](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3608)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Add more retryable error types [#31376](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31376)

>         - Tolerate TiKV node address changes during importing [#32875](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32875)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion        
```

    - Fix a bug that `add column` might use a wrong default timestamp after `SET timestamp` is executed [#31968](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31968)
    - Fix a bug that connecting to a TiDB passwordless account from MySQL 5.5 or 5.6 client may fail [#32334](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32334)
    - Fix wrong results when reading partitioned tables in dynamic mode in transactions [#29851](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29851)
    - Fix a bug that TiDB may dispatch duplicate tasks to TiFlash [#32814](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32814)
    - Fix wrong results returned when the input of the `timdiff` function contains a millisecond [#31680](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31680)
    - Fix wrong results when explicitly reading partitions and using the IndexJoin plan [#32007](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32007)
    - Fix a bug that renaming a column fails when changing its column type concurrently [#31075](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31075)
    - Fix a bug that the formula for calculating net cost for TiFlash plans is not aligned with TiKV plans [#30103](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30103)

>     - Fix a bug that `KILL TIDB` cannot take effect immediately on idle links [#24031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24031)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that `KILL TIDB` cannot take effect immediately on idle connections [#24031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24031)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.0.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.0.0 Release Notes

Release date: x x, 2022

TiDB version: 6.0.0-DMR

In 6.0.0-DMR, the key new features or improvements are as follows:

- Support placement rules in SQL to provide more flexible management for data placement.

> - Add a check for data index consistency at the kernel level, which improves system stability and robustness, with only very low resource overhead.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Add a consistency check between data and indexes at the kernel level, which improves system stability and robustness, with only very low resource overhead.
```

> - Provide Top SQL, a performance troubleshooting feature for non-experts, which offers a self-serving database performance monitoring and diagnosis.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Provide Top SQL, a performance troubleshooting feature for non-experts, which offers self-serving database performance monitoring and diagnosis.
```

- Support Continuous Profiling that continuously records the performance data during cluster failure, shortening the troubleshooting time for technical experts.
- Cache hotspot small tables in memory, which greatly improves the access performance, improves the throughput, and reduces access latency.
- Optimize in-memory pessimistic locking. Under the performance bottleneck caused by pessimistic locks, memory optimization for pessimistic locks can effectively reduce latency by 10% and increase QPS by 10%.
- Enhance prepared statements to share execution plans, which lessens CPU resource consumption and improves SQL execution efficiency.

> - Improve the computing performance of the MPP engine, with more functions and operators pushdown, and introduce the dynamic thread pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve the computing performance of the MPP engine by pushing down more functions and operators and introducing the dynamic thread pool.
```

- Add DM WebUI to facilitate managing a large number of migration tasks.

> - Improve the replication stability and efficiency of TiCDC when replicating data in large clusters. TiCDC now supports replicating 100,000 tables simultaneously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve the stability and efficiency of TiCDC when replicating data in large clusters. TiCDC now supports replicating 100,000 tables simultaneously.
```

- Accelerate leader balancing after restarting TiKV nodes, which improves the speed of business recovery after a restart.
- Support canceling the automatic update of statistics, which reduces resource contention and limits the impact on SQL performance.

> - Provide PingCAP Clinic, the automatic diagnosis service for TiDB clusters (Technical Preview version).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Provide PingCAP Clinic, an automatic diagnosis service for TiDB clusters (Technical Preview version).
```

> - Provide PingCAP Clinic, the automatic diagnosis tool for TiDB (Technical Preview version).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Provide PingCAP Clinic, the automatic diagnosis service for TiDB clusters(Technical Preview version).
```

| `tidb_enable_alter_placement` | Deleted | Controls whether to enable [placement rules in SQL](/placement-rules-in-sql.md). |
| `tidb_mem_quota_hashjoin`<br/>`tidb_mem_quota_indexlookupjoin`<br/>`tidb_mem_quota_indexlookupreader` <br/>`tidb_mem_quota_mergejoin`<br/>`tidb_mem_quota_sort`<br/>`tidb_mem_quota_topn` | Deleted | Since v5.0, these variables have been replaced by `tidb_mem_quota_query` and removed from the [system variables](/system-variables.md) document. To ensure compatibility, these variables were kept in source code. Since TiDB 6.0.0, these variables are removed from the code, too. |
| [`tidb_enable_mutation_checker`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_mutation_checker-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the mutation checker. The default value is `ON`. |
| [`tidb_ignore_prepared_cache_close_stmt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ignore_prepared_cache_close_stmt-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Controls whether to ignore the command that closes Prepared Statement. The default value is `OFF`. |

> | [`tidb_mem_quota_binding_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_mem_quota_binding_cache-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Set the memory usage threshold for the cache holding `binding`. The default value is `67108864` (64 MiB). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_mem_quota_binding_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_mem_quota_binding_cache-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Sets the memory usage threshold for the cache holding `binding`. The default value is `67108864` (64 MiB). |
```

| [`tidb_placement_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_placement_mode-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Controls whether DDL statements ignore the placement rules specified by [Placement Rules in SQL](/placement-rules-in-sql.md). The default value is `strict`, which means that DDL statements do not ignore placement rules. |
| [`tidb_rc_read_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_read_check_ts-new-in-v600) | Newly added | <ul><li> Optimizes read statement latency within a transaction. If read/write conflicts are more severe, turning this variable on will add additional overhead and latency, causing regressions in performance. The default value is `off`.</li><li> This variable is not yet compatible with [replica-read](/system-variables.md#tidb_replica_read-new-in-v40). If a read request has `tidb_rc_read_check_ts` on, it might not be able to use replica-read. Do not turn on both variables at the same time.</li></ul> |

> | [`tidb_sysdate_is_now`](/system-variables.md#tidb_sysdate_is_now-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Controls whether `SYSDATE` can be replaced by `NOW`. This configuration has the same effect as MySQL option [`sysdate-is-now`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/server-options.html#option_mysqld_sysdate-is-now). The default value is `OFF`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_sysdate_is_now`](/system-variables.md#tidb_sysdate_is_now-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Controls whether the `SYSDATE` function can be replaced by the `NOW` function. This configuration item has the same effect as the MySQL option [`sysdate-is-now`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/server-options.html#option_mysqld_sysdate-is-now). |
```

| [`tidb_top_sql_max_time_series_count`](/system-variables.md#tidb_top_sql_max_time_series_count-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Controls how many SQL statements that contribute the most to the load (that is, top N) can be recorded by [Top SQL](/dashboard/top-sql.md) per minute. The default is `100`. |
| [`tidb_txn_assertion_level`](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_assertion_level-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Controls the assertion level. The assertion is a data index consistency check performed during the transaction commit process. By default, the check has only minor impact on performance and includes most of the check items.  |

## Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration | Change type | Description |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| TiDB | `stmt-summary.enable` <br/> `stmt-summary.enable-internal-query` <br/> `stmt-summary.history-size` <br/> `stmt-summary.max-sql-length` <br/> `stmt-summary.max-stmt-count` <br/> `stmt-summary.refresh-interval` | Deleted | Configuration related to the [statement summary tables](/statement-summary-tables.md). All these configuration items are removed. You need to use SQL variables to control the statement summary tables. |

> | TiKV | `enable-io-snoop` | Deleted | Remove the `enable-io-snoop` configuration item. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiKV | `enable-io-snoop` | Deleted | Removes the `enable-io-snoop` configuration item. |
```

| TiDB | [`new_collations_enabled_on_first_bootstrap`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#new_collations_enabled_on_first_bootstrap) | Modified | Controls whether to enable support for the new collation. Since v6.0, the default value is changed from `false` to `true`. This configuration item only takes effect when the cluster is initialized for the first time. After the first bootstrap, you cannot enable or disable the new collation framework using this configuration item. |

> | TiKV | [`backup.num-threads`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#num-threads-1) | Modified | Modify the adjustable range to `[1, CPU]`.  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`backup.num-threads`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#num-threads-1) | Modified | Modify the value range to `[1, CPU]`.  |
```

| TiKV | [`raftstore.apply-max-batch-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#apply-max-batch-size) | Modified | Chang the maximum value to `10240`. |

> | TiKV | [`raftstore.raft-max-size-per-msg`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-max-size-per-msg) | Modified | <ul><li>Change the minimum value from `0` to larger than `0`.</li><li>Add a maximum value of `3 GB`.</li><li>Change the unit from `MB` to `KB\|MB\|GB`.</li></ul> |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`raftstore.raft-max-size-per-msg`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-max-size-per-msg) | Modified | <ul><li>Change the minimum value from `0` to larger than `0`.</li><li>Add a maximum value of `3GB`.</li><li>Change the unit from `MB` to `KB\|MB\|GB`.</li></ul> |
```

> | TiKV | [`backup.num-threads`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#num-threads-1) | Modified | Modify the value range to `[1, CPU]`.  |
> | TiKV | [`raftstore.apply-max-batch-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#apply-max-batch-size) | Modified | Chang the maximum value to `10240`. |
> | TiKV | [`raftstore.raft-max-size-per-msg`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-max-size-per-msg) | Modified | <ul><li>Change the minimum value from `0` to larger than `0`.</li><li>Add a maximum value of `3GB`.</li><li>Change the unit from `MB` to `KB\|MB\|GB`.</li></ul> |
> | TiKV | [`raftstore.store-max-batch-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#store-max-batch-size) | Modified | Add a maximum value of `10240`. |
> | TiKV | [`readpool.unified.max-thread-count`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-thread-count) | Modified | Modify the adjustable range to `[min-thread-count, MAX(4, CPU)]`. |
> | TiKV | [`rocksdb.enable-pipelined-write`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable-pipelined-write) | Modified | Change the default value from `true` to `false`. When this configuration is enabled, the previous Pipelined Write is used. When this configuration is disabled, the new Pipelined Commit mechanism is used. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`backup.num-threads`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#num-threads-1) | Modified | Modifies the value range to `[1, CPU]`.  |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.apply-max-batch-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#apply-max-batch-size) | Modified | Adds the maximum value to `10240`. |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.raft-max-size-per-msg`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-max-size-per-msg) | Modified | <ul><li>Modifies the minimum value from `0` to larger than `0`.</li><li>Add a maximum value of `3GB`.</li><li>Change the unit from `MB` to `KB\|MB\|GB`.</li></ul> |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.store-max-batch-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#store-max-batch-size) | Modified | Adds a maximum value of `10240`. |
| TiKV | [`readpool.unified.max-thread-count`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-thread-count) | Modified | Modifies the adjustable range to `[min-thread-count, MAX(4, CPU)]`. |
| TiKV | [`rocksdb.enable-pipelined-write`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable-pipelined-write) | Modified | Modifies the default value from `true` to `false`. When this configuration is enabled, the previous Pipelined Write is used. When this configuration is disabled, the new Pipelined Commit mechanism is used. |
```

> | TiKV | [`backup.num-threads`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#num-threads-1) | Modified | Modify the value range to `[1, CPU]`.  |
> | TiKV | [`raftstore.apply-max-batch-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#apply-max-batch-size) | Modified | Chang the maximum value to `10240`. |
> | TiKV | [`raftstore.raft-max-size-per-msg`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-max-size-per-msg) | Modified | <ul><li>Change the minimum value from `0` to larger than `0`.</li><li>Add a maximum value of `3GB`.</li><li>Change the unit from `MB` to `KB\|MB\|GB`.</li></ul> |
> | TiKV | [`raftstore.store-max-batch-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#store-max-batch-size) | Modified | Add a maximum value of `10240`. |
> | TiKV | [`readpool.unified.max-thread-count`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-thread-count) | Modified | Modify the adjustable range to `[min-thread-count, MAX(4, CPU)]`. |
> | TiKV | [`rocksdb.enable-pipelined-write`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable-pipelined-write) | Modified | Change the default value from `true` to `false`. When this configuration is enabled, the previous Pipelined Write is used. When this configuration is disabled, the new Pipelined Commit mechanism is used. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`backup.num-threads`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#num-threads-1) | Modified | The value range is modified to `[1, CPU]`.  |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.apply-max-batch-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#apply-max-batch-size) | Modified | The maximum value is changed to `10240`. |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.raft-max-size-per-msg`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-max-size-per-msg) | Modified | <ul><li>The minimum value is changed from `0` to larger than `0`.</li><li>The maximum value is set to `3GB`.</li><li>The unit is changed from `MB` to `KB\|MB\|GB`.</li></ul> |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.store-max-batch-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#store-max-batch-size) | Modified | The maximum value is set to `10240`. |
| TiKV | [`readpool.unified.max-thread-count`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-thread-count) | Modified | The adjustable range is changed to `[min-thread-count, MAX(4, CPU)]`. |
| TiKV | [`rocksdb.enable-pipelined-write`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable-pipelined-write) | Modified | The default value is changed from `true` to `false`. When this configuration is enabled, the previous Pipelined Write is used. When this configuration is disabled, the new Pipelined Commit mechanism is used. |
```

| TiDB | [`pessimistic-txn.pessimistic-auto-commit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#pessimistic-auto-commit-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Determines the transaction mode that the auto-commit transaction uses when the pessimistic transaction mode is globally enabled (`tidb_txn_mode='pessimistic'`). |
| TiKV | [`pessimistic-txn.in-memory`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#in-memory-new-in-v600) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the in-memory pessimistic lock. With this feature enabled, pessimistic transactions store pessimistic locks in TiKV memory as much as possible, instead of writing pessimistic locks to disks or replicating to other replicas. This improves the performance of pessimistic transactions; however, there is a low probability that a pessimistic lock will be lost, which might cause the pessimistic transaction to fail to commit. The default value is `true`. |

> | TiKV | [`quota`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#quota) | Newly added | Add configuration items related to Quota Limiter, which limit the resources occupied by frontend requests. Quota Limiter is an experimental feature and is disabled by default. New configuration items are `foreground-cpu-time`, `foreground-write-bandwidth`, `foreground-read-bandwidth`, and `max-delay-duration`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`quota`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#quota) | Newly added | Add configuration items related to Quota Limiter, which limit the resources occupied by frontend requests. Quota Limiter is an experimental feature and is disabled by default. New quota-related configuration items are `foreground-cpu-time`, `foreground-write-bandwidth`, `foreground-read-bandwidth`, and `max-delay-duration`. |
```

| TiFlash | [`profiles.default.dt_compression_level`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file) | Newly added | Specifies the compression level of TiFlash. The default value is `1`. |
| DM | [`loaders.<name>.import-mode`](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md#task-configuration-file-template-advanced) | Newly added | The import mode during the full import phase. Since v6.0, DM uses TiDB Lightning’s TiDB-backend mode to import data during the full import phase; the previous Loader component is no longer used. This is an internal replacement and has no obvious impact on daily operations.<br/>The default value is set to `sql`, which means using `tidb-backend` mode. In some rare cases, `tidb-backend` might not be fully compatible. You can fall back to Loader mode by configuring this parameter to `loader`. |
| DM | [`loaders.<name>.on-duplicate`](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md#task-configuration-file-template-advanced) | Newly added | Specifies the methods to resolve conflicts during the full import phase. The default value is `replace`, which means using the new data to replace the existing data. |

> | TiCDC | `dial-timeout` | Newly added | The timeout in establishing a connection with the downstream Kafka. The default value is `10s`. |
> | TiCDC | `read-timeout` | Newly added | The timeout in getting a response returned by the downstream Kafka. The default value is `10s`. |
> | TiCDC | `write-timeout` | Newly added | The timeout in sending a request to the downstream Kafka. The default value is `10s`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiCDC | [`dial-timeout`](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#configure-sink-uri-with-kafka) | Newly added | The timeout in establishing a connection with the downstream Kafka. The default value is `10s`. |
| TiCDC | [`read-timeout`](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#configure-sink-uri-with-kafka) | Newly added | The timeout in getting a response returned by the downstream Kafka. The default value is `10s`. |
| TiCDC | [`write-timeout`](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#configure-sink-uri-with-kafka) | Newly added | The timeout in sending a request to the downstream Kafka. The default value is `10s`. |
```

    - TiDB ecosystem tools (TiDB Binlog, TiCDC, and BR) are now compatible with placement rules. The placement option is moved to a special comment in TiDB Binlog.
    - The `information_schema.placement_rules` system table is renamed to `information_schema.placement_policies`. This table now only displays information about placement policies.
    - The `placement_checks` system variable is replaced by `tidb_placement_mode`.
    - It is prohibited to add partitions with placement rules to tables that have TiFlash replicas.
    - Remove the `TIDB_DIRECT_PLACEMENT` column from the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` table.
- The `status` value of SQL plan management (SPM) binding is modified:
    - Remove `using`.
    - Add `enabled` (available) to replace `using`.
    - Add `disabled` (unavailable).
- DM modifies the OpenAPI interface
    - Because of internal mechanism changes, the interface related to task management cannot be compatible with the previous experimental version. You need to refer to the new [DM OpenAPI documentation](/dm/dm-open-api.md) for adaptation.
- DM changes the methods to resolve conflicts during the full import phase

>     - A `loader.&lt;name>.on-duplicate` parameter is added. The default value is `replace`, which means using the new data to replace the existing data. If you want to keep the previous behavior, you can set the value to `error`. This parameter only controls the behavior during the full import phase.

Author: ```suggestion
    - A `loader.<name>.on-duplicate` parameter is added. The default value is `replace`, which means using the new data to replace the existing data. If you want to keep the previous behavior, you can set the value to `error`. This parameter only controls the behavior during the full import phase.
```

    Top SQL is not enabled by default. When enabled, Top SQL provides you with the real-time CPU load of each TiKV or TiDB node. Therefore, you can spot SQL statements consuming high CPU loads at first glimpse, and quickly analyze the issues such as database hotspots and sudden load increases. For example, you can use Top SQL to pinpoint and diagnose an unusual query that consumes 90% CPU of a single TiKV node.

    [User documentation](/dashboard/top-sql.md)

- Support Continuous Profiling

    TiDB Dashboard introduces the Continuous Profiling feature, which is now generally available in TiDB v6.0. Continuous profiling is not enabled by default. When enabled, the performance data of individual TiDB, TiKV, and PD instances will be collected all the time, with negligible overhead. With history performance data, technical experts can backtrack and pinpoint the root causes of issues like high memory consumption, even when the issues are difficult to reproduce. In this way, the mean time to recovery (MTTR) can be reduced.

    [User document](/dashboard/continuous-profiling.md)

### Performance

- Cache hotspot small tables

>     For customer applications in scenarios where hotspot small tables are accessed, TiDB supports explicitly caching the hotspot tables in memory, which greatly improves the access performance, improves the throughput, and reduces access latency. This solution can effectively avoid introducing a third-party cache middleware, reduce the complexity of the architecture, and cut the cost of operation and maintenance management. The solution is suitable for scenarios where small tables are frequently accessed and rarely updated, such as the configuration tables or exchange rate tables.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    For customer applications in scenarios where hotspot small tables are accessed, TiDB supports explicitly caching the hotspot tables in memory, which greatly improves the access performance, improves the throughput, and reduces access latency. This solution can effectively avoid introducing a third-party cache middleware, reduce the complexity of the architecture, and cut the cost of operation and maintenance. The solution is suitable for scenarios where small tables are frequently accessed and rarely updated, such as the configuration tables or exchange rate tables.
```

    [User document](/pessimistic-transaction.md#in-memory-pessimistic-lock), [#11452](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11452)

- Optimization to get TSO at the Read Committed isolation level

    To reduce query latency, when read-write conflicts are rare, TiDB adds the `tidb_rc_read_check_ts` system variable at the [Read Committed isolation level](/transaction-isolation-levels.md#read-committed-isolation-level) to get less unnecessary TSO. This variable is disabled by default. When the variable is enabled, this optimization avoids getting duplicated TSO to reduce latency in scenarios where there is no read-write conflict. However, in scenarios with frequent read-write conflicts, enabling this variable might cause a performance regression.

    [User document](/transaction-isolation-levels.md#read-committed-isolation-level), [#33159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33159)

- Enhance prepared statements to share execution plans

>     Reusing SQL execution plans can effectively reduce the time for parsing SQL statements, lessen CPU resource consumption, and improve SQL execution efficiency. One of the important methods of SQL tuning is to reuse SQL execution plans effectively. TiDB has supported sharing execution plans with prepared statements. However, when the prepared statements are closed, TiDB automatically clears the corresponding plan cache. After that, TiDB might unnecessarily parse the repeated SQL statements, affecting the execution efficiency. Since v6.0, TiDB supports controlling whether to ignore the `COM_STMT_CLOSE` directive through the `tidb_ignore_clost_stmt_cmd` parameter (disabled by default). When the parameter is enabled, TiDB ignores the directive of closing prepared statements and keeps the execution plan in the cache, improving the reuse rate of the execution plan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Reusing SQL execution plans can effectively reduce the time for parsing SQL statements, lessen CPU resource consumption, and improve SQL execution efficiency. One of the important methods of SQL tuning is to reuse SQL execution plans effectively. TiDB has supported sharing execution plans with prepared statements. However, when the prepared statements are closed, TiDB automatically clears the corresponding plan cache. After that, TiDB might unnecessarily parse the repeated SQL statements, affecting the execution efficiency. Since v6.0.0, TiDB supports controlling whether to ignore the `COM_STMT_CLOSE` directive through the `tidb_ignore_clost_stmt_cmd` parameter (disabled by default). When the parameter is enabled, TiDB ignores the directive of closing prepared statements and keeps the execution plan in the cache, improving the reuse rate of the execution plan.
```

    [User document](/sql-prepare-plan-cache.md#ignore-the-com_stmt_close-command-and-the-deallocate-prepare-statement), [#31056](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31056)

> - Improved query pushdown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve query pushdown
```

    With its native architecture of separating computing from storage, TiDB supports filtering out invalid data by pushing down operators, which greatly reduces the data transmission between TiDB and TiKV and thereby improves the query efficiency. In v6.0, TiDB supports pushing down more expressions and the `BIT` data type to TiKV, improving the query efficiency when computing those expressions and data types.

>     [User document](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md#add-to-the-blocklist), [#12037](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/12037)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    [User document](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md#add-to-the-blocklist), [#30738](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30738)
```

>     With its native architecture of separating computing from storage, TiDB supports filtering out invalid data by pushing down operators, which greatly reduces the data transmission between TiDB and TiKV and thereby improves the query efficiency. In v6.0, TiDB supports pushing down more expressions and the `BIT` data type to TiKV, improving the query efficiency when computing those expressions and data types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    With its native architecture of separating computing from storage, TiDB supports filtering out invalid data by pushing down operators, which greatly reduces the data transmission between TiDB and TiKV and thereby improves the query efficiency. In v6.0.0, TiDB supports pushing down more expressions and the `BIT` data type to TiKV, improving the query efficiency when computing those expressions and data types.
```

> - Support the dynamic pruning mode for partitioned tables in TiFlash MPP engine (experimental)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support dynamic pruning mode for partitioned tables in TiFlash MPP engine (experimental)
```

- Quota Limiter (experimental)

    If your machine deployed with TiKV has limited resources and the foreground is burdened by an excessively large amount of requests, background CPU resources are occupied by the foreground, causing TiKV performance to degrade. In TiDB v6.0, you can use the quota-related configuration items to limit the resources used by the foreground, including CPU and read/write bandwidth. This greatly improves stability of clusters under long-term heavy workloads.

    [User document](/tikv-configuration-file.md#quota)

- Support the zstd compression algorithm in TiFlash

    TiFlash introduces two parameters, profiles.default.dt_compression_method and profiles.default.dt_compression_level, which allows users to select the optimal compression algorithm based on performance and capacity balance.

    [User document](/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file)

- Enable all I/O checks (Checksum) by default

    This feature was introduced in v5.4.0 as experimental. It enhances data accuracy and security without imposing an obvious impact on users’ businesses.

>     Warning: Newer version of data format cannot be downgraded in place to versions earlier than v5.4.0. During such a downgrade, you need to delete TiFlash replicas and replicate data after the downgrade. Alternatively, you can perform a downgrade by referring to [dttool migrate](/tiflash-command-line-flags.md#dttool-migrate).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Warning: Newer version of data format cannot be downgraded in place to versions earlier than v5.4.0. During such a downgrade, you need to delete TiFlash replicas and replicate data after the downgrade. Alternatively, you can perform a downgrade by referring to [dttool migrate](/tiflash/tiflash-command-line-flags.md#dttool-migrate).
```

    [User document](/use-tiflash.md#use-data-validation)

- Improve thread utilization

    TiFlash introduces asynchronous GRPC and Min-TSO scheduling mechanisms. Such mechanisms ensure more efficient use of threads and avoids system crashes caused by excessive threads.

    [User document](/monitor-tiflash.md#coprocessor)

### Data Migration

#### TiDB Data Migration (DM)

- Add WebUI (experimental)

>     On the newly introduced WebUI, you can easily manage a large number of migration tasks. The WebUI supports:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    On the WebUI, you can easily manage a large number of migration tasks. The WebUI supports:
```

    - Dashboard
    - Migration task management
    - Upstream configuration
    - Replication status query
    - Master and Worker management

>     WebUI is still experimental and is still under development. Therefore, it is recommended only for trial. A known issue is that problems might occur if you use WebUI and dmctl  to operate the same task. This issue will be resolved in later versions.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    WebUI is still experimental and is still under development. Therefore, it is recommended only for trial. A known issue is that problems might occur if you use WebUI and dmctl to operate the same task. This issue will be resolved in later versions.
```

    [User document](/dm/dm-webui-guide.md)

- Add an error handling mechanism

    More commands are introduced to address problems that interrupt a migration task. For example:

> - In case of a schema error, you can update the schema file by using the `--from-source/--from-target` parameter of the binlog-schema update, instead of editing the schema file separately.
> - You can specify a binlog position to inject, replace, skip, or revert a DDL statement.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
     - In case of a schema error, you can update the schema file by using the `--from-source/--from-target` parameter of the `binlog-schema update` command, instead of editing the schema file separately.
    - You can specify a binlog position to inject, replace, skip, or revert a DDL statement.
```

>      - In case of a schema error, you can update the schema file by using the `--from-source/--from-target` parameter of the `binlog-schema update` command, instead of editing the schema file separately.

Author: ```suggestion
    - In case of a schema error, you can update the schema file by using the `--from-source/--from-target` parameter of the `binlog-schema update` command, instead of editing the schema file separately.
```

    [User document](/dm/dm-manage-schema.md)

- Support full data storage to Amazon S3

    When DM performs all or full data migration tasks, sufficient hard disk space is required for storing full data from upstream. Compared with EBS, Amazon S3 has nearly infinite storage at lower costs. Now, DM supports configuring Amazon S3 as the dump directory. That means you can use S3 to store full data when you perform all or full data migration tasks.

    [User document](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md#task-configuration-file-template-advanced)

- Support starting a migration task from specified time

    A new parameter `--start-time` is added to migration tasks. You can define time in the format of '2021-10-21 00:01:00' or '2021-10-21T00:01:00'.

    This feature is particularly useful in scenarios where you migrate and merge incremental data from shard mysql instances. Specifically, you do not need to set a binlog start point for each incremental migration task. Instead, you can complete an incremental migration task faster by using the `--start-time` parameter in `safe-mode`.

    [User document](/dm/dm-create-task.md#flags-description)

#### TiDB Lightning

> - Maximum tolerable error

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Support configuring the maximum number of tolerable errors
```

>     Added a configuration item `max-error`. The default value is 0. When the value is greater than 0, the max-error function is enabled. If an error occurs in a row during encoding, a record containing this row is added to `type_error_v1` and this row is ignored. When rows with errors exceed the threshold, TiDB Lightning exits immediately.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Added a configuration item `max-error`. The default value is 0. When the value is greater than 0, the max-error feature is enabled. If an error occurs in a row during encoding, a record containing this row is added to `type_error_v1` and this row is ignored. When rows with errors exceed the threshold, TiDB Lightning exits immediately.
```

    [User documentation](/pd-control.md#scheduler-show--add--remove--pause--resume--config)

- Support canceling the automatic update of statistics

    Statistics are one of the most important basic data that affect SQL performance. To ensure the completeness and timeliness of statistics, TiDB automatically updates object statistics periodically in the background. However, automatic statistics updates may result in resource contention, affecting SQL performance. To address this issue, you can manually cancel the automatic update of statistics since v6.0.

    [user documentation](/statistics.md#automatic-update)

- PingCAP Clinic diagnostic service (Technical Preview version)

>     PingCAP Clinic is a diagnostic service for TiDB clusters. This service helps users troubleshoot cluster issues remotely and provides a quick check of cluster status locally. With PingCAP Clinic, you can ensure the stable operation of your TiDB cluster for its full life cycle, predict potential issues, reduce the probability of issues, quickly troubleshoot and fix cluster issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    PingCAP Clinic is a diagnostic service for TiDB clusters. This service helps troubleshoot cluster issues remotely and provides a quick check of cluster status locally. With PingCAP Clinic, you can ensure the stable operation of your TiDB cluster for its full life cycle, predict potential issues, reduce the probability of issues, and quickly troubleshoot and fix cluster issues.
```

    When contacting PingCAP technical support for remote assistance to troubleshoot cluster issues, you can use the PingCAP Clinic service to collect and upload diagnostic data, thereby improving the troubleshooting efficiency.

    [User documentation](/clinic-introduction.md)

- An enterprise-level database management platform, TiDB Enterprise Manager

>     TiDB Enterprise Manager (TiEM) is an enterprise-level database management platform based on the TiDB database, which aims to help users deploy, monitor, back up, and scale TiDB clusters in on-premises or public cloud environments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    TiDB Enterprise Manager (TiEM) is an enterprise-level database management platform based on the TiDB database, which aims to help users manage TiDB clusters in on-premises or public cloud environments.
```

    - Support dynamically modifying `raftstore.raft-max-size-per-msg` [#12017](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12017)
    - Support monitoring multi-k8s in Grafana [#12014](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12014)
    - Transfer the leadership to CDC observer to reduce latency jitter [#12111](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12111)
    - Support dynamically modifying `raftstore.apply_max_batch_size` and `raftstore.store_max_batch_size` [#11982](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11982)
    - RawKV V2 returns the latest version upon receiving the `raw_get` or `raw_scan` request [#11965](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11965)
    - Support the RCCheckTS consistency reads [#12097](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12097)
    - Support dynamically modifying  `storage.scheduler-worker-pool-size`(the thread count of the Scheduler pool) [#12067](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12067)
    - Control the use of CPU and bandwidth by using the global foreground flow controller to improve the performance stability of TiKV [#11855](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11855)

>     - Support dynamically modifying `readpool.unified.max-thread-count` (the thread count of the UnifyReadPool)  [#11781](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11781)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Support dynamically modifying `readpool.unified.max-thread-count` (the thread count of the UnifyReadPool) [#11781](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11781)
```

    - Use the TiKV internal pipeline to replace the RocksDB pipeline and deprecate the `rocksdb.enable-multibatch-write` parameter [#12059](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12059)

+ PD

>     - Support automatically selecting the fastest object for transfer when evicting the leader, which helps speed up the eviction process  [#4229](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4229)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Support automatically selecting the fastest object for transfer when evicting the leader, which helps speed up the eviction process [#4229](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4229)
```

    - Forbid deleting a voter from a 2-replica Raft group in case that the Region becomes unavailable [#4564](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4564)
    - Speed up the scheduling of the balance leader [#4652](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4652)

+ TiFlash

>     - Forbid the logical splitting of TiFlash files (by adjusting the default value of `profiles.default.dt_enable_logical_split` to `false`. See [user document](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#tiflash-configuration-parameters) for details) and improve the space usage efficiency of the TiFlash columnar storage so that the space occupation of a table synchronized to TiFlash is similar to the space occupation of the table in TiKV.
>     - Optimize the cluster management and replica replication mechanism for TiFlash by integrating the previous cluster management module into TiDB, which accelerates replica creation for small tables. [#29924](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29924)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Forbid the logical splitting of TiFlash files (by adjusting the default value of `profiles.default.dt_enable_logical_split` to `false`. For details, see [user document](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#tiflash-configuration-parameters).) and improve the space usage efficiency of the TiFlash columnar storage so that the space occupation of a table synchronized to TiFlash is similar to the space occupation of the table in TiKV.
    - Optimize the cluster management and replica replication mechanism for TiFlash by integrating the previous cluster management module into TiDB, which accelerates replica creation for small tables [#29924](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29924)
```

    - Fix wrong results returned when the `timdiff` function contains a millisecond [#31680](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31680)
    - Fix wrong results when explicitly reading partitions and using the IndexJoin plan [#32007](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32007)
    - Fix the bug that "rename column" fails when changing column type concurrently [#31075](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31075)
    - Fix the bug that the formula for calculating net cost for TiFlash plans is not aligned with TiKV plans [#30103](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30103)
    - Fix the bug that `KILL TIDB` cannot take effect immediately on idle links [#24031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24031)
    - Fix the bug that reading from a table with generated columns  may get wrong results [#33038](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33038)
    - Fix wrong results of deleting data of multiple tables using `left join` [#31321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31321)
    - Fix the bug that the `SUBTIME` function returns a wrong result in case of overflow [#31868](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31868)

>     - Fix the bug that the selection operator can not be pushed down when an  aggregation contains the having condition [#33166](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33166)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that the `selection` operator cannot be pushed down when an aggregation query contains the `having` condition [#33166](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33166)
```

>     - Fix the bug that CTE may be blocked when a query reports errors [#31302](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31302)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that CTE might be blocked when a query reports errors [#31302](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31302)
```

>     - Fix the bug that excessive length of varbinary or varchar columns when creating tables in non-strict mode may result in errors [#30328](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30328)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that excessive length of varbinary or varchar columns when creating tables in non-strict mode might result in errors [#30328](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30328)
```

>     - Fix the wrong number of followers in `information_schema.placement_policies`when no follower is specified [#31702](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31702)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the wrong number of followers in `information_schema.placement_policies` when no follower is specified [#31702](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31702)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiDB allows to specify column prefix length as 0 when an index is created [#31972](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31972)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB allows partition names ending with spaces [#31535](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31535)

>     - Fix the wrong message of the `RENAME TABLE` statement [#29893](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29893)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Correct the error message of the `RENAME TABLE` statement [#29893](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29893)
```

    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that destroying a peer might cause high latency [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)
    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix a bug that TiKV cannot delete a range of data (`unsafe_destroy_range` cannot be executed) when the GC worker is busy [#11903](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11903)
    - Fix a bug that TiKV panics when the data in `StoreMeta` is accidentally deleted in some corner cases [#11852](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11852)
    - Fix a bug that TiKV panics when performing profiling on an ARM platform [#10658](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10658)
    - Fix a bug that TiKV might panic if it has been running for 2 years or more [#11940](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11940)
    - Fix the compilation issue on the ARM64 architecture caused by missing SSE instruction set [#12034](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12034)
    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that deleting an uninitialized replica might cause an old replica to be recreated [#10533](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10533)

>     - Fix the bug that stale messages causes TiKV to panic [#12023](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12023)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that stale messages cause TiKV to panic [#12023](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12023)
```

    - Fix the issue that undefined behavior (UB) might occur in TsSet conversions [#12070](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12070)
    - Fix a bug that replica reads might violate the linearizability [#12109](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12109)
    - Fix the potential panic issue that occurs when TiKV performs profiling on Ubuntu 18.04 [#9765](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/9765)
    - Fix the issue that tikv-ctl returns an incorrect result due to its wrong string match [#12049](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/12049)
    - Fix the issue of intermittent packet loss and out of memory (OOM) caused by the overflow of memory metrics [#12160](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12160)
    - Fix the potential issue of mistakenly reporting TiKV panics when exiting TiKV [#12231](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12231)

+ PD

>     - Fix the issue that the operator creates steps with meaningless Joint Consensus [#4362](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4362) [#4444](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4444)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the operator creates steps with meaningless Joint Consensus [#4362](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4362), [#4444](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4444)
```

    [User document](/sql-prepare-plan-cache.md#ignore-the-com_stmt_close-command-and-the-deallocate-prepare-statement), [#31056](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31056)

- Enhanced function queries

    With its native architecture of separating computing from storage, TiDB supports filtering out invalid data by pushing down operators, which greatly reduces the data transmission between TiDB and TiKV and thereby improves the query efficiency. In v6.0, TiDB supports pushing down more expressions and the `BIT` data type to TiKV, improving the query efficiency when computing those expressions and data types.

    [User document](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md#add-to-the-blocklist), [#12037](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/12037)

> - Support the dynamic pruning mode for partitioned tables in TiFlash MPP engine (experimental feature)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support the dynamic pruning mode for partitioned tables in TiFlash MPP engine (experimental)
```

> - Support the dynamic pruning mode for partitioned tables in TiFlash MPP engine (experimental feature)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support the dynamic pruning mode for partitioned tables in TiFlash MPP engine (experimental)
```

### TiDB Lightning

- Maximum tolerable error

    Added a configuration item `max-error`. The default value is 0. When the value is greater than 0, the max-error function is enabled. If an error occurs in a row during encoding, a record containing this row is added to `type_error_v1` and this row is ignored. When rows with errors exceed the threshold, TiDB Lightning exits immediately.

    Matching the `max-error` configuration, the `lightning_task_info` configuration item records the name of the database that reports a data saving error.

    This feature does not cover all types of errors, for example, syntax errors are not applicable.

    [User document](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md#type-error)

### Data sharing and subscription

- Support replicating 100K tables simultaneously

    By optimizing the data processing flow, TiCDC reduces the resource consumption of processing incremental data for each table, which greatly improves the replication stability and efficiency when replicating data in large clusters. The result of an internal test shows that TiCDC can stably support replicating 100,000 tables simultaneously.

> 
>     [User document]()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    When contacting PingCAP technical support for remote assistance to troubleshoot cluster issues, you can use the PingCAP Clinic service to collect and upload diagnostic data, thereby improving the troubleshooting efficiency.

    [User documentation](/clinic-introduction.md)

### TiDB Enterprise Manager

TiDB Enterprise Manager (TiEM) is an enterprise-level database management platform based on the TiDB database, which aims to help users deploy, monitor, back up, and scale TiDB clusters in on-premises or public cloud environments.

TiEM not only provides full lifecycle visual management for TiDB clusters, but also provides one-stop services: parameter management, version upgrades, cluster clone, active-standby cluster switching, data import and export, data replication, and data backup and restore services. TiEM can improve the efficiency of DevOps on TiDB and reduce the DevOps cost for enterprises.

> Currently, TiEM is provided in the [TiDB Enterprise](https://en.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/) edition only. To get TiEM and its documentation, contact us via the [TiDB Enterprise](https://en.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/) page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Currently, TiEM is provided in the [TiDB Enterprise](https://en.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/) edition only. To get TiEM, contact us via the [TiDB Enterprise](https://en.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/) page.
```

---
title: TiDB 6.0.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.0.0 Release Notes

Release date: x x, 2022

TiDB version: 6.0.0-DMR

In 6.0.0-DMR, the key new features or improvements are as follows:

- Support placement rules in SQL
- Add a check for data index consistency at the kernel level
- Enhance Raft Engine
- Accelerate leader balancing after restarting TiKV nodes
- Support canceling the automatic update of statistics
- Optimize the overhead of obtaining TSO at the Read Committed isolation level
- Enhance prepared statements to share execution plans
- Enhance function queries
- TiKV 过载资源保护增强（实验特性)
- Cache hotspot small tables

> - 批量更新热点索引

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Optimize in-memory pessimistic locking

> - TiDB Enterprise Manager, an enterprise-level database management platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Provide TiDB Enterprise Manager, an enterprise-level database management platform
```

    [User document](/pessimistic-transaction.md#in-memory-pessimistic-lock), [#11452](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11452)

- Optimization to get TSO at the Read Committed isolation level

    To reduce query latency, when read-write conflicts are rare, TiDB adds the `tidb_rc_read_check_ts` system variable at the [Read Committed isolation level](/transaction-isolation-levels.md#read-committed-isolation-level) to get less unnecessary TSO. This variable is disabled by default. When the variable is enabled, this optimization can almost help avoid getting duplicated TSO to reduce latency in scenarios with no read-write conflict. However, in scenarios with frequent read-write conflicts, enabling this variable might cause a performance regression. Do not use it before checking.

>     [User docs](/transaction-isolation-levels.md#read-committed-isolation-level), [#33159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33159)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    [User document](/transaction-isolation-levels.md#read-committed-isolation-level), [#33159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33159)
```

    After a restart, TiKV nodes need to redistribute the unevenly scattered leaders for load balance. In large-scale clusters, leader balancing time is positively correlated with the number of Regions. For example, the leader balancing of 100K Regions can take 20-30 minutes, which is prone to performance issues and stability risks due to uneven load. TiDB 6.0 provides a parameter to control the balancing concurrency and adjusts the default value to 4 times of the original, which greatly shortens the leader rebalancing time and accelerates the business recovery after a restart of TiKV nodes.

    [User documentation](/pd-control.md#scheduler-show--add--remove--pause--resume--config)

- Support canceling the automatic update of statistics

    Statistics are one of the most important basic data that affects SQL performance. To ensure the completeness and timeliness of statistics, TiDB updates statistics periodically. Since v6.0, you can cancel the automatic update of statistics manually, which avoids any SQL performance impact caused by resource contention of the automatic update task.

    [user documentation](/statistics.md#automatic-update)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- PingCAP Clinic diagnostic service (Technical Preview version)
	
    PingCAP Clinic is a diagnostic service for TiDB clusters. This service helps users troubleshoot cluster issues remotely and provides a quick check of cluster status locally. With PingCAP Clinic, you can ensure the stable operation of your TiDB cluster for its full life cycle, predict potential issues, reduce the probability of issues, quickly troubleshoot and fix cluster issues.
	
    When contacting PingCAP technical support for remote assistance to troubleshoot cluster issues, you can use the PingCAP Clinic service to collect and upload diagnostic data, thereby improving the troubleshooting efficiency.
	
    [User documentation](/clinic-introduction.md)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.0.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.0.0 Release Notes

Release date: x x, 2022

TiDB version: 6.0.0-DMR

In 6.0.0-DMR, the key new features or improvements are as follows:

- Support placement rules in SQL
- Add a check for data index consistency at the kernel level
- Accelerate leader balancing after restarting TiKV nodes
- Support canceling the automatic update of statistics
- Optimize the overhead of obtaining TSO at the Read Committed isolation level
- Enhance prepared statements to share execution plans
- Improve query pushdown
- Provide Quota Limiter (experimental)
- Cache hotspot small tables
- Optimize in-memory pessimistic locking
- Provide TiDB Enterprise Manager, an enterprise-level database management platform
- Provide PingCAP Clinic, the automatic diagnosis tool for TiDB (Technical Preview version)

> - Top SQL becomes generally available (GA)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
- Performance troubleshooting feature for non-experts: Top SQL
- Continuous profiling becomes Generally Available
```

    [User document](/placement-rules-in-sql.md)

- Support building TiFlash replicas by databases. To add TiFlash replicas for all tables in a database, you only need to use a single SQL statement, which greatly saves operation and maintenance costs.

    [User document](/tiflash/use-tiflash.md#create-tiflash-replicas-for-databases)

### Transaction

- Add a check for data index consistency at the kernel level

    Add a check for data index consistency when a transaction is executed, which improves system stability and robustness, with only very low resource overhead. You can control the check behavior using the `tidb_enable_mutation_checker` and `tidb_txn_assertion_level` variables. With the default configuration, the QPS drop is controlled within 2% in most scenarios. For the error description of the consistency check, see [user document](/data-inconsistency-errors.md).

### Observability

> - ​​General availability (GA) of Top SQL

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
- Top SQL: Performance troubleshooting for non-experts
```

>     Top SQL is a self-service database performance monitoring and diagnosis feature provided in TiDB Dashboard for DBAs and app developers. With this feature, you can easily locate SQL queries that contribute to a high load of a TiDB or TiKV node in a specified time range. Unlike existing diagnostic features provided in TiDB Dashboard for database experts, Top SQL is designed for non-experts. You do not need to traverse thousands of monitoring charts to find correlations or understand TiDB internal mechanisms such as Raft Snapshot, RocksDB, MVCC, and TSO. Understanding basic concepts, such as index, lock conflict, and execution plans, is enough for you to use Top SQL to analyze database load quickly and improve application performance.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    Top SQL is a self-serving database performance monitoring and diagnosis feature available in TiDB Dashboard, for DBAs and App developers. Unlike existing expert diagnostic features, Top SQL is designed for non-experts: you do not need to traverse thousands of monitoring charts to find correlations or understand TiDB internal mechanisms such as Raft Snapshot, RocksDB, MVCC, and TSO. To get started with Top SQL for analyzing database load quickly and improving App performance, only basic database knowledges (such as index, lock conflict and execution plans) is needed.
```

>     Top SQL is disabled by default and can be enabled with a single click. When enabled, Top SQL provides you with the CPU load of each TiKV or TiFlash node within 30 days. Therefore, you can spot SQL statements consuming high CPU loads at first glimpse, and quickly analyze the issues such as database hotspots and sudden load increases. For example, you can use Top SQL to locate an analytical query that consumes 99% of the load for a low-load database.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    Top SQL is available to TiDB clusters deployed or upgraded using TiUP (v1.9.0 or later) and TiDB Operator (v1.3.0 or later). Top SQL is not enabled by default. You can enable it in TiDB Dashboard with a single click. When enabled, Top SQL provides you with the real-time CPU load of each TiKV or TiDB node. Therefore, you can spot SQL statements consuming high CPU loads at first glimpse, and quickly analyze the issues such as database hotspots and sudden load increases. For example, you can use Top SQL to locate and diagnose an unusual query that consumes 90% CPU of a single TiKV node.
```

    [User documentation](/dashboard/top-sql.md)

- GA of Continuous Profiling

>     TiDB Dashboard introduces the Continuous Profiling feature, providing the ability to automatically save instance performance analysis results as the cluster is running, improving the observability of TiDB cluster performance and helping to reduce troubleshooting time.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    TiDB Dashboard introduces the Continuous Profiling feature since v5.4.0, which is now generally available in v6.0.0. When enabled, the performance data of each TiDB, TiKV and PD instances will be collected all the time, with negligible overhead. These history performance data can be used for technical experts to backtrack and pinpoint the root cause of production issues like high memory consumption, even when they are hard to replicate.
```

>     With Continuous Profiling, you can collect continuous performance data of TiDB, TiKV, and PD instances, and view the profiling results in flame graphs.
> 
>     This feature is applicable to TiDB clusters deployed or upgraded using TiUP of v1.9.0 or later or TiDB Operator of v1.3.0 or later.
> 
>     This feature is disabled by default. You can enable it in TiDB Dashboard.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    Continuous Profiling is available to TiDB clusters deployed or upgraded using TiUP (v1.9.0 or later) and TiDB Operator (v1.3.0 or later). Top SQL is not enabled by default. You can enable it in TiDB Dashboard with a single click.
```

>     TiDB Dashboard introduces the Continuous Profiling feature, providing the ability to automatically save instance performance analysis results as the cluster is running, improving the observability of TiDB cluster performance and helping to reduce troubleshooting time.
> 
>     With Continuous Profiling, you can collect continuous performance data of TiDB, TiKV, and PD instances, and view the profiling results in flame graphs.
> 
>     This feature is applicable to TiDB clusters deployed or upgraded using TiUP of v1.9.0 or later or TiDB Operator of v1.3.0 or later.
> 
>     This feature is disabled by default. You can enable it in TiDB Dashboard.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    TiDB Dashboard introduces the Continuous Profiling feature since v5.4.0, which is now generally available in v6.0.0. Continuous profiling is not enabled by default. When enabled, the performance data of each TiDB, TiKV and PD instances will be collected all the time, with negligible overhead. These history performance data can be used for technical experts to backtrack and pinpoint the root cause of production issues like high memory consumption, even when the issues are hard to replicate. In this way, MTTR can be improved.
```

    This feature is particularly useful in scenarios where you migrate and merge incremental data from shard mysql instances. Specifically, you do not need to set a binlog start point for each incremental migration task. Instead, you can complete an incremental migration task faster by using the `--start-time` parameter in `safe-mode`.

    [User document](/dm/dm-create-task.md#flags-description)

#### TiDB Lightning

- Maximum tolerable error

    Added a configuration item `max-error`. The default value is 0. When the value is greater than 0, the max-error function is enabled. If an error occurs in a row during encoding, a record containing this row is added to `type_error_v1` and this row is ignored. When rows with errors exceed the threshold, TiDB Lightning exits immediately.

    Matching the `max-error` configuration, the `lightning_task_info` configuration item records the name of the database that reports a data saving error.

    This feature does not cover all types of errors, for example, syntax errors are not applicable.

    [User document](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md#type-error)

### Data sharing and subscription

> - Support replicating 100K tables simultaneously

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support replicating 100,000 tables simultaneously
```

---
title: TiDB 6.0.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.0.0 Release Notes

Release date: x x, 2022

TiDB version: 6.0.0-DMR

In 6.0.0-DMR, the key new features or improvements are as follows:

- Support placement rules in SQL

> - Add a check for data index consistency at the kernel level
> - Enhance Raft Engine
> - Accelerate leader balancing after restarting TiKV nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a check for data index consistency at the kernel level
- Accelerate leader balancing after restarting TiKV nodes
```

| TiKV | `quota` | Newly added | Add configuration items related to Quota Limiter, which limit the resources occupied by frontend requests. Quota Limiter is an experimental feature and is disabled by default. New configuration items are `foreground-cpu-time`, `foreground-write-bandwidth`, `foreground-read-bandwidth`, and `max-delay-duration`. |
| TiKV | `rocksdb.enable-pipelined-write` | Modified | Change the default value from `true` to `false`. When this configuration is enabled, the previous Pipelined Write is used. When this configuration is disabled, the new Pipelined Commit mechanism is used. |
| TiKV | `rocksdb.max-background-flushes` | Modified | - When the number of CPU cores is 10, the default value is `3`.<br/>- When the number of CPU cores is 8, the default value is `2`. |

> | TiKV | `rocksdb.max-background-jobs` | Modified | + When the number of CPU cores is 10, the default value is `9`.<br/>+ When the number of CPU cores is 8, the default value is `7`. |
> | TiKV | [`raft-engine.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-engine) | Modified | The default value is changed from `false` to `true`, which uses Raft Engine to store raft logs. When it is enabled, configurations of `raftdb` are ignored. |
> | TiKV | `raftstore.apply-max-batch-size` | Modified | Chang the maximum value to `10240`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiKV | `rocksdb.max-background-jobs` | Modified | + When the number of CPU cores is 10, the default value is `9`.<br/>+ When the number of CPU cores is 8, the default value is `7`. |
| TiKV | `raftstore.apply-max-batch-size` | Modified | Chang the maximum value to `10240`. |
```

    [User documentation](/dashboard/top-sql.md)

- GA of Continuous Profiling

    TiDB Dashboard introduces the Continuous Profiling feature, providing the ability to automatically save instance performance analysis results as the cluster is running, improving the observability of TiDB cluster performance and helping to reduce troubleshooting time.

    With Continuous Profiling, you can collect continuous performance data of TiDB, TiKV, and PD instances, and view the profiling results in flame graphs.

    This feature is applicable to TiDB clusters deployed or upgraded using TiUP of v1.9.0 or later or TiDB Operator of v1.3.0 or later.

    This feature is disabled by default. You can enable it in TiDB Dashboard.

    [User document](/dashboard/continuous-profiling.md)

> ### Performance
> 
> - Enhanced Raft Engine
> 
>     By default, [Raft Engine](https://github.com/tikv/raft-engine) is used as the storage engine for TiKV logs. Compared with RocksDB, Raft Engine can reduce TiKV I/O write traffic by up to 40% and CPU usage by 10%. At the same time, under certain loads, Raft Engine improves foreground throughput by about 5% and reduces long-tail latency by 20%.
> 
>     [User document](/tikv-configuration-file#raft-engine)
> 
> - Cache hotspot small tables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Performance

- Cache hotspot small tables
```

- Support canceling the automatic update of statistics

    Statistics are one of the most important basic data that affects SQL performance. To ensure the completeness and timeliness of statistics, TiDB updates statistics periodically. Since v6.0, you can cancel the automatic update of statistics manually, which avoids any SQL performance impact caused by resource contention of the automatic update task.

    [user documentation](/statistics.md#automatic-update)

- PingCAP Clinic diagnostic service (Technical Preview version)
	
    PingCAP Clinic is a diagnostic service for TiDB clusters. This service helps users troubleshoot cluster issues remotely and provides a quick check of cluster status locally. With PingCAP Clinic, you can ensure the stable operation of your TiDB cluster for its full life cycle, predict potential issues, reduce the probability of issues, quickly troubleshoot and fix cluster issues.
	
    When contacting PingCAP technical support for remote assistance to troubleshoot cluster issues, you can use the PingCAP Clinic service to collect and upload diagnostic data, thereby improving the troubleshooting efficiency.
	

>     [User documentation](/clinic-introduction.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    [User documentation](/clinic-introduction.md)

```

## New features

### SQL

- SQL-based placement rules for data

    TiDB is a distributed database with excellent scalability. Usually, data is deployed across multiple servers or even multiple data centers. Therefore, data scheduling management is one of the most important basic capabilities of TiDB. In most cases, customers do not need to care about how to schedule and manage data. However, with the increasing application complexity, deployment changes caused by isolation and access latency have become new challenges for TiDB. Since v6.0.0, TiDB officially provides data scheduling and management capabilities based on SQL interfaces. It supports flexible scheduling and management in dimensions such as replica counts, role types, and placement locations for any data. TiDB also supports more flexible management for data placement in multi-service shared clusters and cross-AZ deployments.

    [User document](/placement-rules-in-sql.md)

- Support building TiFlash replicas by databases. To add TiFlash replicas for all tables in a database, you only need to use a single SQL statement, which greatly saves operation and maintenance costs.

>     [User document](/tiflash/use-tiflash.md#按库构建-tiflash-副本)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    [User document](/tiflash/use-tiflash.md#create-tiflash-replicas-for-databases)
```

    [User docs](/transaction-isolation-levels.md#read-committed-isolation-level), [#33159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33159)

- Enhance prepared statements to share execution plans

    Reusing SQL execution plans can effectively reduce the time for parsing SQL statements, lessen CPU resource consumption, and improve SQL execution efficiency. One of the important methods of SQL tuning is to reuse SQL execution plans effectively. TiDB has supported sharing execution plans with prepared statements. However, when the prepared statements are closed, TiDB automatically clears the corresponding plan cache. After that, TiDB might unnecessarily parse the repeated SQL statements, affecting the execution efficiency. Since v6.0, TiDB supports controlling whether to ignore the `COM_STMT_CLOSE` directive through the `tidb_ignore_clost_stmt_cmd` parameter (disabled by default). When the parameter is enabled, TiDB ignores the directive of closing prepared statements and keeps the execution plan in the cache, improving the reuse rate of the execution plan.

>     [User doc]()，[issue]()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    [User document](/sql-prepare-plan-cache.md#manually-clear-execution-plan-cache), [#31056](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31056)
```

- Enhanced function queries

    With its native architecture of separating computing from storage, TiDB supports filtering out invalid data by pushing down operators, which greatly reduces the data transmission between TiDB and TiKV and thereby improves the query efficiency. In v6.0, TiDB supports pushing down more expressions and the `BIT` data type to TiKV, improving the query efficiency when computing those expressions and data types.

    [User document](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md#add-to-the-blocklist), [#12037](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/12037)

- Support the dynamic pruning mode for partitioned tables in TiFlash MPP engine (experimental feature)

    In this mode, TiDB can read and compute the data on partitioned tables using the MPP engine of TiFlash, which greatly improves the query performance of partitioned tables.

>     [User docs](), [issue 号]()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    [User document](/use-tiflash.md#access-partitioned-tables-in-the-mpp-mode)
```

- Improve the computing performance of the MPP engine

    - Support pushing down more functions and operators to the MPP engine

        - Logical functions: `IS`, `IS NOT`
        - String functions: `REGEXP()`, `NOT REGEXP()`
        - Mathmatical functions: `GREATEST(int/real)`, `LEAST(int/real)`
        - Date functions: `DAYOFNAME()`, `DAYOFMONTH()`, `DAYOFWEEK()`, `DAYOFYEAR()`, `LAST_DAY()`, `MONTHNAME()`
        - Operators: Anti Left Outer Semi Join, Left Outer Semi Join

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

      [User document](/use-tiflash.md#supported-push-down-calculations)

```

    - Introduce the dynamic thread pool (enabled by default) to improve the CPU utilization

>     [User docs]()，[issue 号]()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        [User document](/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file)
```

TiDB version: 6.0.0-DMR

In 6.0.0-DMR, the key new features or improvements are as follows:

- Support placement rules in SQL
- Add a check for data index consistency at the kernel level
- Enhance Raft Engine
- Accelerate leader balancing after restarting TiKV nodes
- Support canceling the automatic update of statistics
- Optimize the overhead of obtaining TSO at the Read Committed isolation level
- Enhance prepared statements to share execution plans
- Enhance function queries
- Provide Quota Limiter (experimental)
- Cache hotspot small tables
- Optimize in-memory pessimistic locking
- Provide TiDB Enterprise Manager, an enterprise-level database management platform
- Provide PingCAP Clinic, the automatic diagnosis tool for TiDB (Technical Preview version)
- Top SQL becomes generally available (GA)
- HTAP capabilities improve by x times
- Strengthen disaster recovery

Also, as a core component of TiDB’s HTAP solution, TiFlash<sup>TM</sup> is officially open source in this release. For details, see [TiFlash repository](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash).

## Release strategy changes

Starting from TiDB 6.0.0, TiDB provides two types of releases:

- Long-Term Support Releases

>     Long-Term Support (LTS) releases are released approximately every six months. An LTS release introduces new features and improvements, and accepts patch releases within its release lifecycle. For example, v5.4.0 is an LTS release.

Reviewer 9: I agree with you. Thanks for your suggestion. I think we need to delete v5.4.0 from here. I have fed the change back.

>     Long-Term Support (LTS) releases are released approximately every six months. An LTS release introduces new features and improvements, and accepts patch releases within its release lifecycle. For example, v5.4.0 is an LTS release.

Author: Fixed. Thanks.

- Development Milestone Releases

>     Development Milestone Releases (DMR) are released approximately every two months. A DMR introduces new features and improvements, but does not accept patch releases. It is not recommended for on-premises users to use DMR in production environments. For example, v6.0.0-DMR is a DMR.

Author: Yes. /cc @Ivy-Yinsu

TiDB 6.0.0 is a DMR, and its version is 6.0.0-DMR.

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> When upgrading from an earlier TiDB version to v6.0.0, if you want to know the compatibility change notes of all intermediate versions, you can check the [Release Notes](/release/release-notes.md) of the corresponding version.

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|:---|:---|:---|

> | `tidb_enable_mutation_checker` | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the mutation checker. The default value is `ON`. |

Author: Thanks for mentioning this. The doc for this variable is still in translation, and it'll be ready before release.

| `placement_checks` | Deleted | Controls whether the DDL statement validates the placement rules specified by [Placement Rules in SQL](/placement-rules-in-sql.md). Replaced by `tidb_placement_mode`. |
| `tidb_enable_alter_placement` | Deleted | Controls whether to enable [placement rules in SQL](/placement-rules-in-sql.md). |
| `tidb_mem_quota_hashjoin`<br/>`tidb_mem_quota_indexlookupjoin`<br/>`tidb_mem_quota_indexlookupreader` <br/>`tidb_mem_quota_mergejoin`<br/>`tidb_mem_quota_sort`<br/>`tidb_mem_quota_topn` | Deleted | Since v5.0, these variables have been replaced by `tidb_mem_quota_query` and removed from the [system variables](/system-variables.md) document. To ensure compatibility, these variables were kept in source code. Since TiDB 6.0.0, these variables are removed from the code, too. |

## Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration | Change type | Description |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|

> | TiDB | `pessimistic-txn.pessimistic-auto-commi`t | Newly added | Determines the transaction mode that the auto-commit transaction uses when the pessimistic transaction mode is globally enabled (`tidb_txn_mode='pessimistic'`). |

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
| TiDB | `pessimistic-txn.pessimistic-auto-commit` | Newly added | Determines the transaction mode that the auto-commit transaction uses when the pessimistic transaction mode is globally enabled (`tidb_txn_mode='pessimistic'`). |
```

| TiDB | `new_collations_enabled_on_first_bootstrap` | Modified | Controls whether to enable support for the new collation. Since v6.0, the default value is changed from `false` to `true`. This configuration item only takes effect when the cluster is initialized for the first time. After the first bootstrap, you cannot enable or disable the new collation framework using this configuration item. |
| TiDB | `stmt-summary.enable` <br/> `stmt-summary.enable-internal-query` <br/> `stmt-summary.history-size` <br/> `stmt-summary.max-sql-length` <br/> `stmt-summary.max-stmt-count` <br/> `stmt-summary.refresh-interval` <br/> `pessimistic-txn.in-memory` | Deleted | Configuration related to the [statement summary tables](/statement-summary-tables.md). All these configuration items are removed. You need to use SQL variables to control the statement summary tables. |

> | TiKV |  | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the in-memory pessimistic lock. With this feature enabled, pessimistic transactions store pessimistic locks in TiKV memory as much as possible, instead of writing pessimistic locks to disks or replicating to other replicas. This improves the performance of pessimistic transactions; however, there is a low probability that a pessimistic lock will be lost, which might cause the pessimistic transaction to fail to commit. The default value is `true`. |

Reviewer 10: Looks like the variable name is missing here

Author: Nice catch! Fixed.

    [User document](/cached-tables.md), [#25293](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25293)

- In-memory pessimistic locking

    Since TiDB v6.0.0, in-memory pessimistic locking is enabled by default. After enabling this feature, pessimistic transaction locks are managed in memory. This avoids persisting pessimistic locks and the Raft replication of the lock information, and greatly reduces the overhead of managing pessimistic transaction locks. Under the performance bottleneck caused by pessimistic locks, memory optimization for pessimistic locks can effectively reduce latency by 10% and increase QPS by 10%.

    [User document](/pessimistic-transaction.md#in-memory-pessimistic-lock), [#11452](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11452)

- Optimization to get TSO at the Read Committed isolation level

>     To reduce query latency, when read-write conflicts are rare, TiDB adds the `tidb_rc_read_check_ts` system variable at the [Read Committed isolation level](/transaction-isolation-levels.md#read-committed-isolation-level) to get less unnecessary TSO. This variable is disabled by default. When the variable is enabled, this optimization can almost help avoid getting duplicated TSO to reduce latency in scenarios with no read-write conflict. However, in scenarios with frequent read-write conflicts, enabling this variable might cause a performance regression. Do not use it before checking.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    To reduce query latency, when read-write conflicts are rare, TiDB adds the `tidb_rc_read_check_ts` system variable at the [Read Committed isolation level](/transaction-isolation-levels.md#read-committed-isolation-level) to get less unnecessary TSO. This variable is disabled by default. When the variable is enabled, this optimization avoids getting duplicated TSO to reduce latency in scenarios where there is no read-write conflict. However, in scenarios with frequent read-write conflicts, enabling this variable might cause a performance regression.
```

- Enhance prepared statements to share execution plans

    Reusing SQL execution plans can effectively reduce the time for parsing SQL statements, lessen CPU resource consumption, and improve SQL execution efficiency. One of the important methods of SQL tuning is to reuse SQL execution plans effectively. TiDB has supported sharing execution plans with prepared statements. However, when the prepared statements are closed, TiDB automatically clears the corresponding plan cache. After that, TiDB might unnecessarily parse the repeated SQL statements, affecting the execution efficiency. Since v6.0, TiDB supports controlling whether to ignore the `COM_STMT_CLOSE` directive through the `tidb_ignore_clost_stmt_cmd` parameter (disabled by default). When the parameter is enabled, TiDB ignores the directive of closing prepared statements and keeps the execution plan in the cache, improving the reuse rate of the execution plan.

    [User document](/sql-prepare-plan-cache.md#ignore-the-com_stmt_close-command-and-the-deallocate-prepare-statement), [#31056](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31056)

> - Enhanced function queries

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
- Improved query pushdown
```

- Support the dynamic pruning mode for partitioned tables in TiFlash MPP engine (experimental feature)

    In this mode, TiDB can read and compute the data on partitioned tables using the MPP engine of TiFlash, which greatly improves the query performance of partitioned tables.

    [User document](/use-tiflash.md#access-partitioned-tables-in-the-mpp-mode)

- Improve the computing performance of the MPP engine

    - Support pushing down more functions and operators to the MPP engine

        - Logical functions: `IS`, `IS NOT`
        - String functions: `REGEXP()`, `NOT REGEXP()`
        - Mathmatical functions: `GREATEST(int/real)`, `LEAST(int/real)`
        - Date functions: `DAYOFNAME()`, `DAYOFMONTH()`, `DAYOFWEEK()`, `DAYOFYEAR()`, `LAST_DAY()`, `MONTHNAME()`
        - Operators: Anti Left Outer Semi Join, Left Outer Semi Join

      [User document](/use-tiflash.md#supported-push-down-calculations)

    - Introduce the dynamic thread pool (enabled by default) to improve the CPU utilization

        [User document](/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file)

### Stability

- Enhance baseline capturing of execution plans

>     Enhance the usability of baseline capturing of execution plans by adding a blocklist with such dimensions as table name, frequency, and user name. Introduce a new algorithm to optimize memory management for caching bindings. After baseline capturing is enabled, the system automatically creates bindings for most OLTP queries. Execution plans of bound statements are fixed, avoiding performance problems due to any change in the execution plans. Baseline capturing is applicable to scenarios such as major version upgrades and cluster migration, and helps reduce performance problems caused by rollback of execution plans.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Enhance the usability of baseline capturing of execution plans by adding a blocklist with such dimensions as table name, frequency, and user name. Introduce a new algorithm to optimize memory management for caching bindings. After baseline capturing is enabled, the system automatically creates bindings for most OLTP queries. Execution plans of bound statements are fixed, avoiding performance problems due to any change in the execution plans. Baseline capturing is applicable to scenarios such as major version upgrades and cluster migration, and helps reduce performance problems caused by regression of execution plans.
```

>     [User document](/sql-plan-management.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    [User document](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-capturing), [#32466](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32466)
```

- Quota Limiter (experimental)

    If your machine deployed with TiKV has limited resources and the foreground is burdened by an excessively large amount of requests, background CPU resources are occupied by the foreground, causing TiKV performance to degrade. In TiDB v6.0, you can use the quota-related configuration items to limit the resources used by the foreground, including CPU and read/write bandwidth. This greatly improves stability of clusters under long-term heavy workloads.

    [User document](/tikv-configuration-file.md#quota)

> - Support the zstd compression algorithm

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
- Support in TiFlash for the zstd compression algorithm
```

- Enable all I/O checks (Checksum) by default

    This feature was introduced in v5.4.0 as experimental. It enhances data accuracy and security without imposing an obvious impact on users’ businesses.

    Warning: Newer version of data format cannot be downgraded in place to versions earlier than v5.4.0. During such a downgrade, you need to delete TiFlash replicas and replicate data after the downgrade. Alternatively, you can perform a downgrade by referring to [dttool migrate](/tiflash-command-line-flags.md#dttool-migrate).

    [User document](/use-tiflash.md#use-data-validation)

- Improve thread utilization

    TiFlash introduces asynchronous GRPC and Min-TSO scheduling mechanisms. Such mechanisms ensure more efficient use of threads and avoids system crashes caused by excessive threads.

    [User document](/monitor-tiflash.md#coprocessor)

### TiDB Data Migration (DM)

- Add WebUI (experimental)

    On the newly introduced WebUI, you can easily manage a large number of migration tasks. The WebUI supports:

    - Dashboard
    - Migration task management
    - Upstream configuration
    - Replication status query
    - Master and Worker management

>     WebUI is still experimental and needs improvement. Therefore, it is recommended only for trial. A known issue is that problems might occur if you use WebUI and dmctl  to operate the same task. This issue will be resolved in later versions.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    WebUI is still experimental and is still under development. Therefore, it is recommended only for trial. A known issue is that problems might occur if you use WebUI and dmctl  to operate the same task. This issue will be resolved in later versions.
```

### TiDB Lightning

- Maximum tolerable error

    Added a configuration item `max-error`. The default value is 0. When the value is greater than 0, the max-error function is enabled. If an error occurs in a row during encoding, a record containing this row is added to `type_error_v1` and this row is ignored. When rows with errors exceed the threshold, TiDB Lightning exits immediately.

    Matching the `max-error` configuration, the `lightning_task_info` configuration item records the name of the database that reports a data saving error.

    This feature does not cover all types of errors, for example, syntax errors are not applicable.

    [User document](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-error-resolution.md#type-error)

### Data sharing and subscription

- Support replicating 100K tables simultaneously

    By optimizing the data processing flow, TiCDC reduces the resource consumption of processing incremental data for each table, which greatly improves the replication stability and efficiency when replicating data in large clusters. The result of an internal test shows that TiCDC can stably support replicating 100,000 tables simultaneously.

>     [User document]()

Reviewer 10: This is missing a link

Reviewer: > This is missing a link

Thank you for your reminder. This part does not have a corresponding document, so I will remove this line.

    Statistics are one of the most important basic data that affects SQL performance. To ensure the completeness and timeliness of statistics, TiDB updates statistics periodically. Since v6.0, you can cancel the automatic update of statistics manually, which avoids any SQL performance impact caused by resource contention of the automatic update task.

    [user documentation](/statistics.md#automatic-update)

- PingCAP Clinic diagnostic service (Technical Preview version)
	
    PingCAP Clinic is a diagnostic service for TiDB clusters. This service helps users troubleshoot cluster issues remotely and provides a quick check of cluster status locally. With PingCAP Clinic, you can ensure the stable operation of your TiDB cluster for its full life cycle, predict potential issues, reduce the probability of issues, quickly troubleshoot and fix cluster issues.
	
    When contacting PingCAP technical support for remote assistance to troubleshoot cluster issues, you can use the PingCAP Clinic service to collect and upload diagnostic data, thereby improving the troubleshooting efficiency.
	
    [User documentation](/clinic-introduction.md)

> ### TiDB Enterprise Manager

Reviewer 10: Would be good to link to a page with more info for those who already have an enterprise subscription

Reviewer 3: /cc @zhoubasten

+ PD

    - Support automatically selecting the fastest object for transfer when evicting the leader, which helps speed up the eviction process  [#4229](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4229)
    - Forbid deleting a voter from a 2-replica Raft group in case that the Region becomes unavailable [#4564](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4564)
    - Speed up the scheduling of the balance leader [#4652](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4652)

+ TiFlash

    - Forbid the logical splitting of TiFlash files (by adjusting the default value of `profiles.default.dt_enable_logical_split` to `false`. See [user document](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#tiflash-configuration-parameters) for details) and improve the space usage efficiency of the TiFlash columnar storage so that the space occupation of a table synchronized to TiFlash is similar to the space occupation of the table in TiKV.
    - Optimize the cluster management and replica replication mechanism for TiFlash by integrating the previous cluster management module into TiDB, which accelerates replica creation for small tables. [#29924](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29924)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Improve the speed of restoring the backup data. In the simulation test when BR restores 16 TB data to a TiKV cluster with 15 nodes (each node has 16 CPU cores), the throughput reaches 2.66 GiB/s. [#27036](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27036)

Reviewer 10: Is the 2.66 GiB/s per node or in total?

Author: @3pointer PTAL. Do we need to make this clear in the release notes?

In 6.0.0-DMR, the key new features or improvements are as follows:

- Support placement rules in SQL to provide more flexible management for data placement.
- Add a check for data index consistency at the kernel level, which improves system stability and robustness, with only very low resource overhead.
- Provide Top SQL, a performance troubleshooting feature for non-experts, which offers a self-serving database performance monitoring and diagnosis.

> - Support Continuous Profiling that continuously records the performance data during cluster failure, shortening the troubleshooting time for technical experts.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
- Support Continuous Profiling that collects cluster performance data all the time, shortening MTTR for technical experts.
```
